She realised that there is a need for tutors after her younger sister needed one. “In the process of helping my younger sister, I realised that there is a greater need for tutorials which will supplement the lessons that they are getting in class,” she said. She saw a gap and initially thought it would be an easy business to break into as there are many learners who struggle with mathematics and science, however, it has not been an easy journey. Parents are reluctant to pay extra money on top of school fees. “It is sad that parents do not mind spending thousands on the latest gadgets for their children, but not on extra lessons. Learners are also a problem because they can motivate why they need the latest cell phone but not why they need extra lessons for that subject that is giving them a tough time,” she said. The number of learners is increasing, however, she is not making massive profits – just enough to get qualified tutors and rent a building for the classes. “I am not bothered that the money is not beaming at the seams because for me it has never been about money. My focus is on the learners who need the help to prepare for their future,” she said. Extra classes are an investment in a child’s education and it is better to spend extra money on classes than have to spend even more money for a child to upgrade. She added that she has approached a number of schools offering extra classes but she is met with reluctant responses. “I am told the teachers give extra classes but my argument is that if a child does not understand during class, what is going to be different during the extra lesson if it is the same teacher? Sometimes a different teacher with other methods makes a world of difference,” she added. Think Smart Tutorials is currently renting a building where the classes take place on Saturdays, with four tutors. She hopes to get sponsors on board to help her make the classes more affordable for learners. “I would like to make the classes free but it is not possible at the moment because we have rent to pay, I also have to pay the tutors a decent amount for them to survive. I sometimes find myself paying for things out of my own pocket,” she said. Phomelelo can be reached at 076 224 9578 or info@thinksmarttutorials.com for more information.