Entertaining guests at home requires preplanning to ensure your guests have a great time. Factors such as food, drinks, sleeping space, activities, and possibly party favours are something you should consider when planning to host. Here are 9 top tips on hosting happy house guests: 1.Always plan ahead Early planning can help with making sure everything runs smoothly. It eliminates the stress and disorganization you’d experience if everything was only planned at the last minute. 2.Confirm how many guests you’ll have over The first thing you should do when you’re expecting guests, is verify how many people will be coming over. This is important because it will determine the quantity of food and beverages you need to have available, how much space you will need for your guests, and more. You should also consider whether your guests will be sleeping over or not as this requires additional preparation to accommodate them. 3.Prepare the space your guests will sleep in Before inviting guests to spend the night, you should ensure that there is enough space to accommodate them. If you have a guest bedroom, you should freshen it up before your guests are due to arrive. You can do this by placing clean bedding, linen and towels on the bed, making sure the cupboards are empty to give guests storage space, and providing sufficient pillows and blankets, during the colder months. You can add an air or regular mattress for extra sleeping space in the guest room, however, be sure to test the air mattress beforehand to make sure that it’s not damaged. If you don’t have a guest room, consider using your living room as an additional sleeping area. 4.Prepare the bathroom If you have a guest bathroom, make sure that sure it’s clean, with fresh hand towels, and toilet paper. For an extra special touch, add a few scented candles, creams and travel-sized toiletries that your guests may have forgotten to pack, such as cotton pads, a toothbrush and toothpaste. If you don’t have a guest bathroom, you can do the same in your own bathroom to ensure your guest’s comfort. 5.Find out your guests’ food preferences and allergies so that you can plan meals, snacks and drinks A huge part of being a good host is serving your guests delicious food, drinks, and snacks. It’s important to ask your guests if they have any allergies or food sensitivities beforehand so that you can cater accordingly. Knowing what your guests prefer to eat also helps with meal planning and can be a great asset when you’re planning your budget. 6.Make sure your home is clean It goes without saying, but ensuring that your home is clean will make your guests feel comfortable while they visit. A deep cleaning of dirty carpets, sweeping dirt, dusting and wiping down communal surfaces will do the trick. 7.Light candles, incense and place air diffusers around your home One of the first things that people notice about your home, is the scent. Having a home that smells pleasant is therefore a great way to make a good impression on your guests. You can achieve this with candles, incense or essential oils, which not only smell beautiful but aid in reducing stress and anxiety. 8.Create a sheet with Wi-Fi passwords We live in a technological age where providing a Wi-Fi password is a vital aspect of facilitating your guests comfort, so make sure that information about Wi-Fi passwords are readily accessible to them. 9.Add a personal touch by gifting your guests You can prepare small party favours to show your guests a token of appreciation for their presence in your home. This will leave a long lasting impression and set the tone for the rest of their stay. By using the 9 tips above, you can ensure that entertaining house guests in your home is as seamless as possible.