The interior is typically Honda – uncluttered with a user-focused dashboard presenting the driver with a simple to read and convenient to operate HMI 9-inch touchscreen (standard on Elegance and Executive grades) and 7-inch full TFT instrument cluster. “The system interface is navigated using familiar smartphone-style usability, with swipe controls to scroll through pages and lists. The comprehensive suite of in-built apps can be supplemented by smartphone mirroring, enabled by Android Auto and Apple CarPlay, with the latter available via wireless connection.”  The luggage capacity says Honda is 309 litres which can be increased to 1 210 litres with the rear seats folded down. Powerful e:Hev hybrid technology The base FIT petrol models are equipped with Honda’s new 1.5-litre DOHC i-VTEC petrol engine generating a power output of 89kW and 145Nm. Fuel consumption is indexed at 5.5L/100km and a CO2 emission figure of 132 g/km. The all-new flagship FIT Hybrid offers two compact, powerful electric motors connected to a 1.5-litre DOHC i-VTEC petrol engine, a lithium-ion battery and an “innovative fixed-gear transmission via an intelligent power control unit, which all work harmoniously together to provide a smooth and direct response. Output is 80kW and 253Nm which propel the vehicle from 0 to 100km/h in just 9.4 seconds.  Fuel consumption on the hybrid models is given as 3.7L/100km. “Rather than using a conventional transmission, the FIT Hybrid is equipped with a newly-developed Electronically controlled Continuously Variable Transmission (e-CVT) with a single fixed-gear ratio to create a direct connection between moving components. The result is a smooth and reassuring transfer of torque with a linear feel during acceleration across all drive modes,” says Honda. The FIT comes standard with electronic brake systems, vehicle stability assist, brake assist, hill start assist and automatic brake hold.  FIT owners and occupants are protected by six airbags, comprising front, side and curtain SRS airbags. Other features include collision mitigation braking (CMBS), adaptive cruise control (ACC), lane assist and road departure mitigation. Pricing starts at R319 900 and includes a 5-year/200 000 warranty and 4-year/60 000km service plan. The FIT Hybrid model comes standard with an extended eight-year/200 000km warranty specifically covering the battery and related components of the Hybrid system. Source: QuickPic