And, it would, by all accounts seem that Hyundai is doing well despite the current economic challenges. Its first-ever electric car – the IONIQ 5 has won best design at the TopGear Electric Awards. The brand boasts a second place overall (current in the manufacturer standing) in the World Rally Championships. Hyundai’s warranty burn rate is R32 per unit per month – so yes, absolutely put this new i20 on your shortlist if you are in the market for a medium hatch.   Demanding presence Although white is probably the safest colour and for many reasons, it often makes cars look dull and boring. However this does not apply to the new i20, but my preferred colour would be Fiery Red with a black top. It simply defines the lines and articulations of the i20 design the best. The i20 is available in three derivatives: Motion, 1.2 Fluid and the 1.0 Fluid – the latter two being fitted with 16″ wheels. The front end is dynamic with many sharply defined edges which draws one’s attention to the grille and then down to the spoiler. It also “widens” the stance in a sportscar-like manner rendering big car impression. When I looked at the rear, the design of the light cluster reminded me of those many bubblegum stretches of the ’50s and ’60s. Remember? The rear end seems to be divided into thirds with once again, the lines drawing one towards the Hyundai logo on the tailgate. The bottom black strip on the rear bumper seems to shorten the car and thus adding a sporty energy to it. The shoulder line, looking at the car from the side and in combination of the design lines lower down on the doors, creates a vision of low drag and smooth airflow. Its like one can feel the flow by just looking at it… beautiful!   Wider, longer and more comfortable The first thing I noticed upon entering is the improved leg and shoulder room. It always amazes me how designers create more space beyond the physical millimeters. The fascia is clean and functional and the design of the dashboard and door panels is such that light and shadow produce a sophisticated look despite the plastic used. The eight-inch infotainment screen and system feature prominently and offer Apple Carplay and Android Auto connectivity. A crystal-clear digital cluster right behind the steering offers odometer, rev counter and different screens for fuel index and other info. Shift into reverse and the screen will also give you a rear or reverse view with guidelines. The Fluid derivatives offer a wireless charger with USB port in the centre console. All derivatives offer a USB charging port on the rear of the console between the front seats.  The interior of the new i20 is generally well matured and much more pleasant than the previous model. Engine and performance Three derivatives sporting a 1.2-litre engine 61kW and 115Nm with a five-speed manual box – then the 1.4-liter petrol producing 74kW and 133Nm with a 6-speed automatic and lastly the top spec 1.0-litre Turbo delivering 90kW and 172Nm fitted with either a six-speed manual or a smooth seven-speed DCT gearbox. We drove the latter on the recent launch and it is impressive. Not in the sense that it is a traffic light racer – by no means. It is simply because of the effortlessness of the total driving experience. Steering is precise and light and although the suspension is firm, it is by no means harsh when the road surface gets bumpy.   Conclusion Pricing (entry level) starts at R275 900 – that’s R300 more than that of the previous model and settles at R360 900 for the top spec 1.0 TGDI Fluid DCT. I haven’t decided what to make of the pricing of cars these days – it just seem to be out of control. But then, when Hyundai’s sales and operations director, Stanley Anderson related how the price of parts and the cost of getting these imported has skyrocketed, one can but only shake your head in disbelief.  The i20 is a beautiful car offering many safety and luxury features. Best of all though is that unbeaten seven-year /200 000km warranty and an R32 warranty burn run rate. Go drive it… Photos: QuickPic