When you wake up in the morning, it’s dark outside, and the school run is getting colder by the day, all signs that winter is approaching. We have plenty of outdoor exercise ideas for our kids during our long South African summers, but the colder months can leave us stumped as to how to keep them healthy and entertained. Don’t worry! We’ve got the solution with these fun winter activities for kids that will keep your kids occupied and active no matter what the weather is like. Here are five top winter activities that are perfect for kids: Swimming isn’t just something you do in the summer. In fact, the winter is the best time for your little ones to learn to swim or perfect their strokes if they’re a little older. Most swimming schools have heated indoor pools, so your kids can have fun in the water even if it’s cold and rainy outside. Young children can attend with a parent, and older children can make new friends while learning the fundamentals of freestyle swimming or honing their diving skills. By the time summer arrives, they should be confident enough to jump into the pool or win a spot at the school gala. Swimming schools are often attached to gyms, or you can try a national swimming franchise like Aqua Tots. Trampolining may conjure up images of Olympic gymnasts performing backflips, but it’s also a fun activity for the rest of us. The added benefit is that it’s a fantastic workout that’s also enjoyable. In South Africa, trampoline parks such as Bounce in Johannesburg are becoming popular “urban playgrounds” for children. Toddlers can run around and burn off some energy, while older kids can practice slam-dunking with their friends or play a game of dodgeball. Because they are not affected by wintery weather, these are also excellent locations for birthday parties or functions. Ice skating may be associated with colder climates such as Europe and the United States, but your children can enjoy it in sunny South Africa. Ice skating is a great way to teach kids how to balance while also keeping them physically fit. It’s also a lot of fun! You can rent skates before investing in equipment, and you can even schedule a lesson or two to help your kids gain confidence on their feet. The Ice Station in Cape Town is open all year and offers ice hockey and figure skating. Try the ice rink at Northgate Shopping Centre in Johannesburg, as well as others throughout the city. The Bay West Ice Rink in Port Elizabeth is one of the country’s other ice rinks. Dance is a wonderful and expressive way for kids to exercise while also learning discipline. From ballet to hip-hop, modern dancing to tap, dancing is a wonderful and expressive way for kids to exercise while also learning discipline. Children have an innate love of music, and their uninhibited personalities often result in them being far better dancers than we adults. Dancing teaches younger children to listen to simple instructions in addition to improving muscle tone and flexibility. Plus, who doesn’t enjoy dressing up as a fluffy chicken for the year-end concert? One of the advantages of martial arts for kids is that it builds self-esteem and confidence while also keeping them fit and disciplined! Starting at around the age of six to eight is probably the best time, as this is when children can successfully follow instructions and apply themselves. To find the right discipline for your child, try boxing or karate, or speak with a martial arts specialist teacher.