Sedans are not popular with South Africans and smaller or B-segment SUVs are entering the playing field. These are often priced equally to or slightly lower than top-spec hatches and thus the demand is increasing. And manufacturers will give the market what it demands. I have just driven the new Kia Sonet, a B-segment SUV slotting in between the Kia Rio and Seltos models. I must add that I have not driven a Kia in some time and this was a good reminder of the quality the brand represents.  Strong design Muscular, confident and youthful are all words that describe the new Sonet. The front end is bold and powerful with many soft-edge design lines which present the Sonet with a broad look. Add to this bold wheel arches and a high ground clearance and the Sonet is ready to take on and conquer the B-SUV segment. Skid plates – front and rear – and roof rails add an adventurous spirit to the Sonet and the wrap-around rear windscreen completes the bold and wellrounded design. At 4,12 metres long the Sonet qualifies as one of the largest offerings in the B-SUV segment.  Inside the office A subdued but spacious interior oozes sophistication, functionality and solid quality. I love the D-shape steering and the planted feel of the car when one seat oneself in the driver’s seat. And by the way – those seats are awesome and extremely comfortable. You sit in them – not on them! Head and shoulder room is good. With good all-round visibility and light entering the car, the office is inviting and secure. Centre stage on the dashboard is a large eight-inch HD touch screen infotainment system that also provides a reverse camera. It allows for voice control and boasts Apple CarPlay and Android Auto connectivity. Noise feedback from the road, and the engine for that matter, is well controlled and makes for clear voice communication within the car and also when one uses the hands-free connectivity.  Driving experience The Sonet – all current derivatives – is fitted with 1.5-litre normally aspirated engines which produce 85kW and 144Nm. A 1.0-litre turbo derivative will be apparently be launched later this year. The engine drives power through either a six-speed manual or and CVT transmission. The power plant is quite willing when you press down on the accelerator and provides a more-than adequate response for everyday and long-distance driving. My weekend drive indexed an excellent 5,9 litres/100km fuel consumption. I drove the manual version and was impressed with the smooth, quiet and precise shifting, the light steering and just generally the manner in which the Sonet behaves on road – confident, safe and comfortable. The suspension is firm but it does well in absorbing whatever irregularities the road dishes up. This applies on gravel too. The Sonet also, among other features, boasts electronic stability control, hill-start assist, dual front airbags and ISOFIX child-seat anchoring points.  Conclusion If I was in the market for a B-SUV right now, the Sonet will probably top my shortlist – no quibble! Pricing starts at R264 995 with the top model – the EX CVT – coming in at R302 995. This includes a five-year warranty and a prepaid four-year/ 60 000km service plan. Will the Sonet attract new customers to the brand as Kia hopes? I think it will. Remember the interest rates are at an all-time low, so now is a good time to reap that which you did not sow. Photos: MotorPress