Creamy mushroom samp You’ll need: 250ml samp; 350g mushrooms, chopped; 1 large onion, diced; 250g cream; salt to taste How to: Soak the samp in hot water overnight. Rinse the samp and boil on a medium high heat for 1 hour. In a saucepan sauté the diced onion and mushrooms. Once the samp is soft add the onions and mushrooms, salt and mix all together. Add the cream and stir. Reduce the heat to low to thicken the samp before serving. Curried chicken feet You’ll need: 500g chicken feet; 1 cup boiling water; 1 tsp turmeric powder; 1 tsp curry powder; 1 tomato, peeled and grated; salt to taste How to: Soak the chicken feet in hot water and remove scales. Transfer to a pot and add the water, turmeric, curry powder, tomato and salt. Cook over a medium heat for 30 minutes stirring occasionally, then lower the heat and simmer to make the sauce thick. Simple traditional butternut You’ll need: 1 large butternut, cut into cubes; 1 tsp sugar How to: Place the butternut in a pot with a small amount of water (it will also release its own water) and boil. Add the sugar and cook over a medium heat until soft. Simple traditional spinach You’ll need: 1kg spinach; 1 onion, diced; salt and pepper; cayenne pepper How to: Sauté onion in a pan with oil over a medium heat. Once the onion is translucent, add the spinach and cook till soft stirring constantly. Add salt, pepper and cayenne pepper to taste. Steamed bread You’ll need: 3 cups of flour; 2 tsp salt; 1 tsp yeast; 3 tsp sugar; 1 cup warm water How to: Sift the dry ingredients together in a large bowl. Add the warm water and bring together, kneading until the dough combines and does not stick to your hands. Grease a clean bowl with butter, add the dough, cover with a dish towel and place in a warm place for an hour. Fill a large pot halfway with boiling water and place over medium heat. Grease a bowl with butter and add the dough. Place the bowl with the dough inside the pot (making sure no water gets in), cover with lid, and allow to steam for an hour or until cooked. Remove bread and cool before slicing and serving. Tripe/Mogodu/Ulusu You’ll need: 500g clean tripe; 1 tbsp salt; 1 tsp pepper; 1 large potato, diced; 1 tsp cayenne pepper How to: Rinse the tripe in cold water. Over a medium to high heat, boil the tripe in enough water to cover the tripe. Cook for 3 hours adding water when necessary. Season with salt, pepper and cayenne pepper. Add the diced potato and reduce to low heat until tripe and potato are soft and the sauce has thickened. Serve.