This after the hub was downgraded from category seven to category two by the South African Civil Aviation Authority (SACAA) earlier this year over safety concerns. During a visit to the airport with Transport MEC Mavhungu Lerule-Ramakhanya, she said the department was ‘saddened’ by the findings of the inspectors but maintains that it was necessary for the safety of staff and clients of the airport. “We would have liked to avoid the reduction in capabilities of the airport but unfortunately it had to be done. Safety is one of the main issues that were raised by the inspector and we have been working tirelessly since then to make sure these issues are attended to and addressed.” Lerule-Ramakhanya admitted that the current state of the airport must have had an effect on the local economy and says this is one of the motivating factors for her department to ensure that the airport is back to fully functional. In a bid to ensure that those responsible are held accountable the MEC says a number of disciplinary procedures are ongoing, while some staff members have been dismissed. “Unfortunately I cannot delve into the merits of these cases as they are still ongoing, but I can confirm that we have parted ways with a number of people and that a multi-functional board has been appointed with the necessary expertise in various departments that are necessary for the revitalisation of the airport. If you are expected to perform a certain duty, it is your responsibility to ask for assistance should you encounter any difficulties.” She says the time frame for the implementation of the recommendations is three months from April when the issues were raised. Of the 14 issues, 10 have been addressed and the rest have not been completed as they are construction issues which require more time, but are ongoing. According to Lerule-Ramakhanya the airport will not receive any additional money other than the R14 million that was allocated as part of the budget from Treasury. “We are confident that by the time we reach our deadline we could have completed the recommendations and that the airport will function even better than before,” she concluded.