Is your child a tech-game junkie? Are you looking for ways to encourage them to ditch computer programmes, smartphone apps, and video games? These classic kid-friendly games require zero tech devices and will help develop their cognitive and verbal skills, as well as their self-esteem. Children learn best when they are engaged and having fun. Board games are excellent for your child’s cognitive development. Even the simplest board game includes some strategy, counting, and colour recognition. From Go Fish to Old Maid, card games are a great cure for boredom and are fun for all ages (bonus points if you can learn magic card tricks). Use LEGO bricks to create, learn and play. Let your child build his own constructions. A nature scavenger hunt is a fun way to get kids to interact with nature, and you can do it in your own backyard. Create a list of natural items appropriate for the season and location, and see how many your children can find. Ready or not, here I come. This game is a classic, which has maintained its popularity for many years. Hiding and finding is a common interest of small children– that’s why it’s a great game for kids and will keep them busy for a while. With a little assistance from an adult, young children can have a huge amount of fun flying kites. There’s no hard and fast rule; just make sure your kids make the connection between the pretty thing in the sky and the handle in their hand. Hopscotch can be played indoors or outside, with tape or chalk. Use chalk to draw a hopscotch pattern on the ground, or use masking tape on the floor and let the hopping begin. It’s not traditionally a very competitive game but can be turned into one if the kids so choose. All you need for the game is a long rope and an open space to play in. Each team pulls the rope as hard as they can. Line the kids up and let the craziness start as they tug. You can never go wrong with ball games, be it soccer, basketball, or even hockey. With or without fancy equipment, this is a great way to get kids outside and running around. 