Serves 4 You’ll need: 1kg leg of lamb, cubed; 75ml oil; 1 onion, diced; 2 cloves; 2 cinnamon sticks; 30ml medium-strength masala curry powder; 1 tsp salt; 4 cloves of garlic, chopped; thumb-sized piece of fresh ginger, finely chopped; a small handful of curry leaves; 1 tsp fennel seeds; 250ml water; 4 large potatoes, peeled and cut in bite-sized pieces; 2 medium tomatoes, skinned and diced; coriander (dhania) leaves for garnishing. How to: Heat oil and add diced onion, cloves and cinnamon sticks. Add the masala powder mix, stir and add meat. Add salt, garlic and ginger, curry leaves and fennel seeds. Stir all ingredients together. Allow cooking on high heat for 5 minutes. Reduce heat to medium and continue cooking for 30 minutes. As excess water and juices evaporate, add the additional cup of water, followed by the potato and tomato. When both meat and vegetables are cooked (approximately 30 minutes), simmer on high heat for 5 minutes. Garnish with coriander and serve with basmati rice, roti and green salad. Easy home-made roti: You’ll need: 240g cake flour; a pinch salt; ¾ cup water; 150g butter, chilled; vegetable oil, for frying. How to: Place the flour, salt and water in a bowl and mix using a wooden spoon, then knead to form a soft dough. If the dough feels too dry, add a little more water. If it feels too wet, add a little more flour. Divide the dough into 8 equal portions. Spray a clean work surface with nonstick cooking spray, then roll out one of the portions of dough into a 20 cm disc. Using the tip of a knife, break off a small bit of butter and stud the dough with about 15 pieces of butter. Roll the butter-studded roti into a sausage shape (again using oil or a non-stick spray). Roll the roti to form a shell-like shape. Repeat with the remaining dough and place in an airtight container. Chill for 1 ½ hour, then roll out the discs of dough once more. Brush a pan with a little vegetable oil and place over medium heat. Add 1 roti and cook for 1 minute, or until it turns golden with a few darker stops. Turn over and cook the other side. Repeat with as many rotis as desired. * Recipe by Ann Nagan, Principal Capsicum Culinary Studio Durban campus.