A teenager from the area, according to sources, twice attempted to rape a two-year-old girl, but the family claims police officers on duty informed them that a case could not be opened until the crime has been committed. Lucy Buys says it was a Monday afternoon when her son and his two-year-old cousin walked to the spaza shop a few houses down the street. Soon afterwards, the toddler came running home crying. “We were all alarmed and rushed out to follow the cries of my son who was being beaten up by a teenage boy who stays just down the road. I immediately knew what had happened and my son was able to confirm that the older boy had been touching the young child inappropriately and trying to pull her away from him. When my son tried to protect his cousin, he got a beating in exchange.” According to Buys, when this incident first happened a few weeks ago, they thought trying to discipline the perpetrator would solve the situation, but after the most recent incident, they realised the help of the police should be called in. “My decision to approach the police was fueled by the insults I had to endure from the perpetrator. He also threatened my son, saying he would beat him up again.” The family called the Westenburg Police Station and two officers were dispatched to the scene. “The officers acted improperly. The lady was only concerned with her hair and nails, and the male officer was on his phone most of the time. After I insisted that they act, the officer suggested they could at least visit the suspect and warn him. On the way to the suspect’s house the officers said they will warn him another day, as he would run away should this be done immediately.” Buys said she was disappointed by the police’s seeming apathy in this situation. “It is a very sad reality that the police don’t open a case just because the perpetrator had not been successful in committing the crime. It is painful that these officers do not stand by their pledge to serve and protect. Being an officer should be about crime prevention as much as it is about getting justice for crime.” The family subsequently visited their local police station and was able to open a case. Station Commander Lt Col Maimele Pilusa confirmed that a case was being investigated.