Delegates from a number of youth formations in the district as well as National Youth Development Agency (NYDA), the Commission on Gender Equality and Limpopo Economic Development Agency (LEDA) attended. Matters discussed included access to technology within the constraints of network connectivity, skills development among youth and lack of support to SMME initiatives and representation of youth in local government structures. CDM Mayor, John Mpe opened the session and explained that the event took place during an important time of commemorating and celebrating Youth Month under the theme “The year of Charlotte Maxeke, growing the youth employment for an inclusive and transformed society”. “Indeed this icon of struggle fought for democracy and freedom we have today. It is in her memory that we continue to create more opportunities for the development of our young people,” Mpe said. Mpe added that CDM continues to roll out programmes towards creation of employment, internships and learnerships in order to empower young people with relevant skills for formal employment. “This parliament remains a strategic platform to present issues affecting youth,” he said, and explained that the municipality brought together young people from different backgrounds and formations to debate and resolve given areas. “As the district municipality, we appreciate the fact that Capricorn is home to young people who are dynamic, innovative and driven. We are alive to the fact that 75% of our district population is youth, and it therefore is important that our programmes are deliberately aimed at supporting and empowering this segment of the population.” According to Mpe, CDM has made significant strides to implement the resolutions that the Youth Parliament took previously. “CDM has during the financial year 2019/20 placed about 14 young people on an internship programme ending in 2022. This programmes has been implemented by the district to reduce the high rate of unemployment and to equip youth with relevant skills in preparation for the formal job market. CDM has also partnered with the Department of Public Works for work opportunities in the Expanded Public Works Program to alleviate poverty and unemployment among youth. The municipality also rolled out programmes to combat gender-based violence and femicide and made great strides towards providing Wi-Fi connectivity to local municipalities, which is accessed for free. This Wi-Fi assists communities, in particular youth in rural areas, to access information on employment opportunities, bursaries, funding for small businesses, study material and research content,” Mpe reported.