During an intense workout, we sweat a lot and taking a few regular sips of water might not be enough to keep your body hydrated. The key is to prepare your body with plenty of fluids before, during and afterwards. The first thing you’ll notice is an increase in body temperature. This is because muscles need energy for workouts, so your body burns fats and carbohydrates in a series of chemical reactions that produce heat. The fact that your body warms up as much as it does during this process is one of the many reasons why it’s a great idea to exercise outside in the wintertime. When your body gets too warm, it sweats in an attempt to cool down again. Prep your body before exercise Drinking water before hitting the gym is a great way to lubricate the joints and help transport nutrients to give you energy, which your body uses during workouts to fuel your movements. So, before starting your next workout, you should drink at least half a litre of water two to three hours before. Stay hydrated during your workout It’s key that you always have a source of hydration when exercising. This means filling up water bottles or even using hydration packs that make hydrating on the go more convenient. Post-workout By this time, you’re sweating and wanting to down your entire water bottle. Drink as much as you need to, but keep in mind that drinking too much water without replacing essential electrolytes can dilute the levels of salt and electrolytes in the body, leading to a variety of health concerns. Protein shakes are a great way to get some hydration in, provide some electrolytes and refuel after a workout. Keep hydrating After you’ve exercised, and even if you haven’t, drink enough water throughout the day. Our bodies need about two litres of water a day to remain healthy, but this can vary based on activity, weight and metabolism, so adjust this amount based on what works for you. Water isn’t the only source of hydration If you struggle to drink enough water, try sparkling water, herbal tea, aloe concentrate, coconut water, freshly squeezed or pasteurised juices in moderation and diluted with water. Add lemon, herbs, or fruit to water. * Source: Supplied 