Before you start pumping your favourite workout tunes, remember not to push yourself to the limit too quickly. It’s important to start slow and steady, and build up your strength each time Do this work out twice a week and in about 30 days, you’ll start to notice how much stronger you are, how much better your balance is and how amazing your clothes look on you. Lunges are ideal to challenge balance and increase strength in your legs and glutes. How? Complete 10 reps x 3 sets. We dread them, but push-ups are one of the most effective bodyweight exercises. How? Complete 3 sets x 5, if that. If you can’t manage a standard push-up yet, simply drop down and do them on your knees. Increase your lower body and core strength, as well as flexibility in your lower back and hips. Because squats engage some of the largest muscles in the body, they will burn those calories. How? Repeat 3 sets x 20 reps. This is a compound exercise, which means it utilises multiple joints and muscles at once. Great for your shoulders, it also engages your upper back and core. How? You need: a pair of 2 – 5kg dumbbells, depending on how you feel. Complete 3 sets x 12 reps. These make your back look toned and strengthen multiple muscles in your upper body. Choose a moderate weight dumbbell and ensure that you’re squeezing at the top of the movement. How? You need a pair of 5kg dumbbells. Repeat 3 sets x 10. A great one for balance, single-leg deadlifts need stability and leg strength. How? Repeat 10 -12 reps before moving the weight to your left hand and repeating on the left leg. Ah, the one we love to hate, burpees are a super-effective whole-body move that provides cardio and muscle strength. How? Complete 3 sets x 10 reps. Planks target both your abdominal muscles and your whole body; they stabilise your core without straining your back the way sit-ups or crunches might. Try and do How? Complete 1 set x 30-second hold to start and build up by 15 seconds each time. The glute bridge effectively works your entire posterior chain and makes your butt look good too. How? Complete 10–12 reps x 3 sets. If you’re not breaking a sweat, focus on making each move more challenging by: * Source: healthline.com; thebodyworkshop.co.za