Purchase a fully packed kit or assemble your own one. Check expiry dates. Every car should come with a spare tyre, tyre jack and tyre iron. You need to know where your spare is located and how to change your tyre. Always check that these tools are in your car and that the spare is inflated before you travel. A mini air compressor can connect to your car’s 12V adapter and inflate your flat tyre in seconds. Find compressor connectors at shops – they may save you a great deal of time and effort. A cost-effective addition to your car’s essentials is a tyre pressure gauge. Always keep jumper cables in your car, especially in the cooler seasons when car batteries are temperamental. Invest in a portable battery charger to give you enough charge to get to a petrol station. Never lose or throw out your car’s manual; keep it safe in your cubbyhole when you’re not sure what that “little light” means. Your local dealership, auto mechanic or towing service numbers should be kept in your car’s manual or saved on your phone. Breakdowns don’t always happen during the day. From checking an engine’s nooks and crannies to providing light for fellow travellers, a flashlight can be a lifesaver. They come in almost every shape and size, are a great replacement for a toolbox in an emergency and make a great Father’s day gift. Keep energy bars or snack bars handy. If you’re stranded, you may get hungry. Just remember to replace these often and check expiry dates. The same goes for pet food. Always keep a good supply of water; this can help an overheating car and keep you hydrated while you wait for roadside assistance. It’s compulsory to have one in your car to increase your visibility to other motorists if you break down on the side of the road. We depend on our phones or GPS devices, but it does not harm to have a map book too. If your GPS battery dies, loses signal or your phone battery is flat, you can navigate offline. If you need to replace a tyre or poke around under your car’s hood, you need something to clean your hands. For spills, messes or when nature calls and there’s no stop nearby. Always keep a pencil and notebook in your car; you never know when you may need to take down someone’s details or give yours out. Whether to keep dry or to keep the sun out of your face, always be prepared. In case you need cash and there’s no ATM, it’s always a safe option to have some money on you when you’re on a road trip. To keep warm in emergencies. In case you get drenched in rain or mud; do the same for everyone travelling with you. Have extra disposable masks too. You should have one in your car at all times. * Source: Supplied by the AA.