Baylis was recently appointed as the golf instructor at the Polokwane Golf Club, and some of his key roles will include managing all golf teaching activities, including the driving range, related practice facilities and staff, whilst focusing on providing a world-class teaching and coaching experience to every member and visitor at the club. He says he has already put measures and programmes in place in his effort of unearthing potential golf stars. “I engage with the Limpopo Golf Union to further develop the programme. I will also be inviting schools in Polokwane to participate in a school coaching programme that I will start next term. I was recently invited to a golf development initiative for disadvantaged children at the Ga-Moeti driving range in Moletjie. I will put a school holiday coaching programme together for juniors and will run some competitions for them too. I also want to start an incentive for ladies to learn golf and intend travelling to other towns to offer my coaching services to other clubs in the province.” To achieve the goal, Baylis says he will offer individual one-on-one lessons as well as group coaching sessions. “I like teaching novices from the beginning, especially juniors, because they are taught the correct way and more likely to reach their full potential. With experienced players I generally try to work with existing techniques and make small improvements to get better results.” Despite the society dubbing the sport as an expensive and elite sport, Baylis pointed out that the Development Board of South Africa through Golf RSA and the provincial golf unions have money in place for development programmes, targeting disadvantaged children, affording them an opportunity to learn golf with an ambition of bettering their lives through the game. “There is no denying that golf is quite an expensive sport to play, particularly for adults. New golf equipment is generally not cheap and golf courses are expensive to maintain, so membership fees are charged accordingly. The future of the game, however, lies in the hands of our children. Most clubs offer highly reduced and affordable rates for junior players. Through schools and junior group coaching sessions, learning the game is also affordable and second-hand junior golf clubs are usually available at a good price as kids tend to outgrow their sets every couple of years. “He urged citizens to come to the club and enroll for lessons. “Golf is a game for a lifetime and is enjoyed by people of all ages. I am encouraging people to come to the club and hone their golf skills. It is never too late to start. It is good exercise as there is a lot of walking involved, although golf carts are available to rent for those who prefer to drive. Because of the nature of the game, it is Covid-19 friendly as social distancing is easy to maintain in the open, outdoor environment of a golf course.” He added that he is happy to assume the position and he is looking forward to working with seasoned and aspiring golfers in the province. “I am happy to be in the province and I am looking forward to great sessions. Teaching the game is my passion, so when the opportunity arose to do what I love at the busiest golf course in Limpopo, I did not hesitate to apply for the position.” He served as national coach for Zimbabwe, Malawi and Zambia between 2001 and 2015. He started a golf development programme in Malawi, a country with only one 18 hole golf course and five junior players with a club handicap, and produced a golf team three years later that finished second to South Africa in the All Africa Junior Golf Team Championships. He then moved to Zimbabwe where he started a golf development programme and academy, and within a few years produced some of the country’s top players including Zimbabwe’s number one ranked amateur, David Amm. He was the head coach of the Zimbabwe golf team that won one gold, two silver and three bronze medals at the Special Olympics Games in Abu Dhabi in 2019.