Vinyl tiles are synthetic layered materials that are pressed together to create a floor covering that is durable. Many people prefer vinyl tiles because they are cost-effective, making them more affordable than other types of flooring. They come in a variety of patterns too, allowing for floor customisation according to people’s individual tastes. Here’s what you need to know about vinyl tile patterns: Type of vinyl flooring There are 2 main types of vinyl flooring, namely vinyl roll and luxury vinyl tiles. They’re both created from the same materials, with the only difference between them being how they are constructed. Vinyl roll This type of vinyl flooring comes in flexible sheets with a fibreglass and cushion back. They come in an array of colours, styles and patterns. They’re also phthalate-free and usually have low volatile organic compounds (VOC) emissions, both of these are known to cause adverse health conditions in instances of prolonged exposure. Luxury vinyl tile This type of vinyl flooring is created to mimic other types of flooring that are usually more expensive, such as ceramic tile and hardwood flooring. Luxury vinyl tiles can be flexible or sturdy and they are easy to install due to their modular design, with some people even installing them without moving furniture out of the room. 1. The famous checkered vinyl tiles  Checkered vinyl tiles are a timeless pattern to have in your home. They’re perfect for kitchens and can match with a variety of decor styles such as mid-century modern, boho-chic, minimalism, and more. 2. Faux wood vinyl tiles    These types of vinyl tiles mimic actual wood. You can also purchase vinyl tiles that are similar in texture to wood to make the tiles look more realistic. Faux wood vinyl tiles will add a layer of chic sophistication to your kitchen design. 3. Faux ceramic tiles    Add some faux ceramic tiles to your kitchen or bathroom and experiment with different types of patterns, such as this vintage layout that just screams “retro.” 4. Geometric patterns  Geometric tile patterns can help you add dimension to your kitchen floor. They’ll also make your kitchen look spacious and ultra-modern while adding an eclectic feel to the space. 5. Textured vinyl patterns    This textured vinyl pattern replicates concrete flooring. The patterns and design shading engraved in the vinyl give it a hyper-realistic look. This concrete-like vinyl flooring is perfect for kitchens in homes that have a modern industrial decor style. 6. Mosaic  Mosaic patterns truly stand out and help breathe new energy into a space. They’re not only great for flooring but can also be used as backsplashes to add an accent to a plain kitchen wall. Spruce up your kitchen with one of the vinyl tile patterns above. They’re a long-lasting, easy to maintain, and cost-effective way to upgrade parts of your kitchen without investing too much time and money.