Buying art from online art auctions is a pocket-friendly way to add style and flair to a home, without breaking the bank. Are you dropping big bucks on a brand-new leather couch or sleek kitchen appliance from a luxury decor retailer, but settling for generic, mass-produced prints on your wall? Whoa, big spender, hold on to that credit card. You might want to allocate a larger chunk of your décor budget to art and collectables. For R30 000, about the same price as a new three-seater leather couch, you can procure a selection of high-quality limited edition prints and original artworks at Strauss & Co’s June online auction. “The sale caters to all pockets, from entry-level works for novice art lovers to higher-priced works from blue-chip artists such as William Kentridge for more experienced collectors,” says Alastair Meredith, senior art specialist at Strauss and Co. “When you purchase art from a reputable auction house, you have peace of mind that it’s been vetted by art specialists for value and provenance.” With time the sofa may depreciate in value and the fridge’s warranty will expire, whilst a savvy art investment will retain or even increase its value. When you’re planning to redecorate or move into a new property, you may feel that you’ve outgrown some of your artwork. Unlike your other purchases, you do not have to hawk it on online platforms or at your local pawn shop. (Unfortunately the same can’t be said for the sofa or the refrigerator.) Strauss & Co will help you resell the artwork on auction and assist you in obtaining a fair market-related price. “When it comes to collecting and displaying art, it’s all about your own taste and interests. There is no right or wrong when you’re buying art, Meredith emphasizes. “Some of our clients only collect one artist, others are more interested in a specific period or style. Browse through the online catalogue to see what resonates with your taste and living space. Art offers you the opportunity to imprint your unique taste and identity on your home.” The times where the Kentridge must match the drapes are also long gone – there is no reason why you can’t display a bold contemporary abstract painting against the backdrop of Dutch Golden Age-inspired floral wallpaper. Make a statement with a cobalt blue Ming Chinese porcelain plate by juxtaposing it with a Walter Battiss limited edition print in contrasting colours. Display pre-war artists next to contemporary ones and abstract non-figurative work alongside more traditional still lifes. Many of Strauss & Co’s art specialists have curated retrospectives and themed exhibitions and will offer advice on how to exhibit your art in your home. “Before you commit to buying an artwork, chat to one of Strauss & Co’s art specialists about the artwork’s condition. A lithograph on paper dating from the 1920s will not necessarily be in pristine condition and may need a little extra care from its owner.” The Strauss team will also advise you on the correct way to display the artwork – direct sunlight, for instance, will wreak havoc on works on paper, particularly watercolours with light-sensitive pigments. If you love the art but hate the frame, don’t trust the local printing shop that framed your kids’ eisteddfod certificates to handle the reframe. “Fine art requires specialist framers that know how to protect and display your investment for years to come. Climate and region also play a big role when caring for your investment – a bronze sculpture with a unique patina will need special care if its final destination is a KwaZulu-Natal coastal property, with humid conditions year round,” Meredith concludes. The current Strauss & Co online auction that takes place from May 31 until 8pm on June 7, 2021 – you can view the lots: https://www.straussart.co.za/auctions/details/7-jun-2021  A Linnware vase, the baluster body glazed in shades of pale green and russet, with russet-glazed rim, 15cm high R 2 000 – 3 000  William Kentridge SOUTH AFRICAN 1955- Iris Signed and numbered 23/40 in pencil in the margin. Etching Plate size: 20 by 14cm; sheet size: 30 by 24cm; 45 by 39 by 3,5cm including frame. R 20 000 – 30 000  Walter Battiss SOUTH AFRICAN 1906-1982 Nasturtium Signed; inscribed with the artist’s name, title and dedication on a piece of card adhered to the reverse. Watercolour on paper laid down on card 17,5 by 16cm excluding frame; 36 by 34 by 3cm including frame. R 12 000 – 16 000   Sam Nhlengethwa SOUTH AFRICAN 1955- Tribute to Henri Matisse Signed, dated ’14, numbered 33/50, inscribed with the title in pencil and embossed with The Artists’ Press chopmark in the margin. Lithograph Image size: 49,5 by 69cm; sheet size: 57 by 76,5cm; 90,5 by 110 by 3,5cm including frame. R 18 000 – 24 000 