Jeffery Deaver’s right up there at the top of our favourite authors, and is always a book club fave. His latest thriller, The Final Twist, sees Investigator Colter Shaw searching for the answer to his father’s final, posthumous riddle. It will lead him to evidence that will topple the secretive espionage company, BlackBridge. He believes BlackBridge to be responsible for his father’s murder and brother’s disappearance. They can outmanoeuvre anyone, as the long trail of bodies behind them can confirm. But they haven’t yet met Colter Shaw! HarperCollins.  When a hurricane hits the Carolinas, it uncovers two bodies, sharing uncanny similarities with a cold case in Quebec that has haunted Temperance Brennan for fifteen years. At the same time, a rare bacterium that can eat human flesh is discovered in Charleston. Panic erupts and people test themselves for a genetic mutation that leaves them vulnerable. With support from her long time partner Andrew Ryan, in a search that soon proves dangerous, Temperance discovers the startling connection between the victims of both murder cases and that both the murders and the disease outbreak have a common cause. It’s Temperance Brennan and Andrew Ryan … so you know it’s by Kathy Riechs. This latest novel, The Bone Code, will keep fans super happy! Simon Schuster.  Completing the trio … Lynda La Plante, with Judas Horse. Violent burglars have been terrorising residents across the English countryside. But when a mutilated body is discovered in a Cotswolds house, it becomes clear that this is no ordinary group of opportunist thieves. As Detective Jack Warr investigates, he discovers locals with dark secrets, unearths hidden crimes and hits countless dead ends. With few leads and the violent attacks escalating, he will have to act as audaciously as the criminals if he hopes to stop them. When Warr meets Charlotte Miles, a terrified woman with links to the group, he must use her to lure the unsuspecting killers into one last job, and into his trap. But with the law already stretched to breaking point, any failure will be on Warr’s head and any more blood spilled, on his hands. Bonnier.