With the onset of the third wave peak of the pandemic, and the recent announcement by President Cyril Ramaphosa moving the country to adjusted alert level 4, SARS has decided to close its tax branches temporarily for physical visits as from July 1 (Thursday) 2021. SARS notes that they are able to do this efficiently because of its digital platforms, as demonstrated during the peak of the second wave, which allows taxpayers to continue to fulfil their obligations online. The temporary closure of the tax branches will not affect the start of the Filing Season for individuals who traditionally file via eFiling or the SARS MobiApp. These taxpayers are encouraged to continue doing so digitally, starting from July 1, 2021. During the branch closures, taxpayers who require assistance to file online will be assisted telephonically with the support of dedicated SARS staff. Branch filing will therefore not commence on July 1, 2021. At this stage, SARS is expected to commence physical branch visits on August 16, 2021, but this will be reviewed continuously. Taxpayers are advised not to go to a SARS branch. The branches will be closed until an announcement is made confirming the reopening date. All Customs Ports of Entry will be open for frontline customs operations, but not for face-to-face client engagement other than for clearance and inspection purposes. SARS reminds members of the public to note the following: SARS will continue to monitor the evolving Covid-19 pandemic and keep all South African taxpayers informed of any changes to these arrangements. For more information, contact SarsMedia@sars.gov.za *Notice: Coronavirus reporting at Caxton Local Media aims to combat fake news Dear reader, As your local news provider, we have the duty of keeping you factually informed on Covid-19 developments. As you may have noticed, mis- and disinformation (also known as “fake news”) is circulating online. Caxton Local Media is determined to filter through the masses of information doing the rounds and to separate truth from untruth in order to keep you adequately informed. Local newsrooms follow a strict pre-publication fact-checking protocol. A national task team has been established to assist in bringing you credible news reports on Covid-19. Readers with any comments or queries may contact National Group Editor Irma Green (irma@caxton.co.za) or Legal Adviser Helene Eloff (helene@caxton.co.za).