Indeed, Ebrahim Patel, the Minister of Trade, Industry and Competition, recently shared a draft green paper on electric vehicles that includes a “proposed roadmap” charting the way forward. In effect, for South Africa’s automotive export industry to survive (and thrive), the country will have to broaden its manufacturing capabilities to include EVs. And it will also have to make purchasing battery-powered vehicles far more attractive to local consumers. As a result, big petrol and diesel engines will eventually become obsolete. So, with Father’s Day firmly on the horizon, it is a great time to take a look at a few purely petrol-powered models that could quite conceivably become collectors’ items one day. Dads, consider snapping up one of these gas guzzlers and hanging on to it as a recreation vehicle (I, Robot style) once the world goes fully electric. Ford Mustang GT Having been around since 1964, the Mustang is the blue oval brand’s longest-running nameplate. While you may find one or two older (left-hand drive) models, your best bet is to look at the sixth generation, which officially touched down in South Africa late in 2015 in right-hand drive form. Consider grabbing a GT model, which boasts Ford’s rowdy, naturally aspirated 5.0-litre V8 petrol engine. Keep your eyes open for the limited-edition Bullitt variant, which is perhaps the pick of the bunch (though a touch more expensive).
The average listed price for a second-hand 2015 Ford Mustang GT is R783 297, with an average mileage of 16 666 kilometres. Mercedes-AMG C63 S Mercedes-AMG has effectively confirmed its upcoming new-generation C63 S will downsize to an electrified 2.0-litre four-cylinder engine, thus losing half its cylinders in the process. While that cleverly engineered powertrain will surely deliver face-contorting performance, there is no denying fans will sorely miss the sonorous twin-turbo 4.0-litre V8 of years gone by. So, why not pick up an example of the roaring eight-cylinder model – in sedan, coupe or convertible form – before it is too late?
The average listed price for a used Mercedes-AMG C63 S is R1 175 798, with an average mileage of 37 812 kilometres. Chevrolet Lumina SS Although Chevrolet no longer has an official presence in South Africa, the American automaker left behind a savage high-performance model dubbed the Lumina SS (which was incidentally sourced from Australia, where it was manufactured and badged as the Holden Commodore). Available in sedan and ute body styles, the tail-happy Lumina SS was initially offered locally with a normally aspirated 5.7-litre V8 engine, before the company increased the capacity to 6.0 litres (there is no replacement for displacement, as they say). A word of caution, though: take it easy when the road’s even a little damp…
The average listed price for a second-hand Chevrolet Lumina SS is R303 994, with an average mileage of 112 702 kilometres. Audi R8 5.2 V10 If you happen to have particularly deep pockets, you are likely to be interested in Audi’s wonderful R8, which is available in both coupe and open-top Spyder form. Top-spec models employ the Volkswagen Group’s atmospheric 5.2-litre V10 (shared with none other than the Lamborghini Huracán), which boasts a truly spine-tingling soundtrack. Should you wish to spend a little less, there is also the option of the Ingolstadt-based firm’s free-breathing 4.2-litre V8 engine, which was available in the first-generation R8.
The average listed price for a used Audi R8 5.2 V10 is R1 924 810, with an average mileage of 31 542 kilometres. Jeep Grand Cherokee SRT Since the world’s obsession with SUVs and crossovers shows no signs of abating, we thought we would include an example here. Of course, Jeep’s Grand Cherokee SRT is no ordinary SUV, thanks largely to the naturally aspirated 6.4-litre Hemi V8 lurking beneath its vast bonnet. While the latest version of the SRT is available new for nearly R1.4-million, it is entirely possible to find earlier models for less than a third of that. Should your budget stretch that far, you could also consider the madcap Trackhawk (one of the fastest production SUVs in the world), which upgrades to a Hellcat-flavoured supercharged 6.2-litre V8. What a Father’s Day present that would make…
This the average listed price for a second-hand Jeep Grand Cherokee SRT is R356 427, with an average mileage of 116 606 kilometres. Pricing source: AutoTrader – period: January to December 2020 Photos do not represent the specific models mentioned in this article – it is for illustration purpose only …