Government’s intention to amend legislation regulating the possession of firearms to the extent that self defence will no longer be accepted as a valid reason to obtain a firearm licence, has been met with strong opposition from most quarters of the community, and Limpopo, regarded as the hunting mecca of the country, is not an exception. Local dealers in firearms are confident that the proposed legislation will have a devastating effect on their businesses that are already adversely affected by the restrictions on hunting activities, brought about by the Covid-19 pandemic. “It is not only the overseas visitors, but also our regular sports customers and collectors that will not be able to support us any more,” a major gun dealer explained. The Civilian Secretariat for Police Service last Friday opened public comment on the 2021 version of the long-dormant draft Firearms Control Amendment Bill. Gun owners and prospective gun owners have 44 days from 22 May to comment on the proposal. The draft legislation seeks to provide for the applicant for a firearm to provide a valid reason for possessing a firearm and further provides ‘that no firearm licences may be issued for self-defence purposes’. The draft law also contains new limits on the amount of ammunition gun owners may have in their possession, and on how many firearms hunters and sport shooters may possess and would also provide for firearms to be seized from anyone charged with domestic violence or harassment, under a system in which their licences are suspended. The proposed legislation will have a drastic effect on farmers that are regarded as one of the most vulnerable groups of society and President of TAU SA, Henry Geldenhuys reckons that the suggested amendments are absurd and contradictory to the Constitution. “The Bill of Rights in the Constitution of South Africa states that every person has the right to a safe environment. Since the government miserably fails to guarantee the safety of South Africans, every person should have the right to take their protection onto themselves.” Geldenhuys explains and adds that South Africans are already like birds on a branch trying to miss the shots fired left, right and centre. According to Geldenhuys, the suggested amendments will be ridiculous as long as crime in the country is out of control and the government cannot guarantee the safety of each citizen. “To expect that farmers, who are remote and isolated, must not protect themselves, is unthinkable,” he emphasises and adds that the latest crime statistics show an increase in attacks and murders with 103 farm attacks and 16 farm murders this year. “It is common knowledge that the police do not have enough vehicles, uniforms, or even equipment to do their jobs properly,” he reckons. “If government approves the suggested amendments, TAU SA will demand that the government be held liable for any expenses incurred from crimes where the victim could not act in self-defence,” Geldenhuys concludes. The DA launched a petition to register its opposition to the the proposed legislation. “We have to protect ownership of firearms at all costs because it is the last line of defense for millions of South Africans. South Africa has one of the highest murder numbers in the world and by only walking the streets, citizens are exposed to the same conditions as in countries with a state of war,” the party said in a statement.