Teenagers need to know that there are different types of skin, but more importantly, they must understand how to treat their skin. If you’re noticing little breakouts on your teen’s skin, it’s best to chat openly and help them deal with it in a way that doesn’t damage their self-esteem. “Teenage acne can have serious, long-lasting psychological consequences,” emphasises Joha-Nel Van Zyl, Founder of the aesthetic boutique clinic, Eximia Belle. “As acne is so common, it’s easy for parents to shrug it off as a passing phase without understanding how severely it may be impacting the lives of their teenage children. The reality is that these concerns must be taken seriously. Numerous studies have shown a clear link between teenage acne and social withdrawal, poor self-esteem, depression and anxiety. According to the National Library of Medicine, the psychological impact of acne and its effects on quality of life can be profound, even comparable, to severe chronic diseases such as asthma, epilepsy and arthritis. Five ways to control teenage acne Leave skin alone Teach your teens not to pick their skin or pop pimples as this leads to even more bacteria, which unintentionally causes even more pimples. Picking can also make pores more noticeable, increase the chances of pockmarks and cause permanent scars. Don’t use oily products Avoid buying any oil-based makeup and greasy hair products. Rather get your son or daughter facial products that don’t block pores (known as non-comedogenic), which will be stated so on the packaging. Make-up brushes and sponges must be cleaned regularly. Cleanse skin twice a day Encourage your teen to remove any make-up before going to bed. Washing the skin is crucial in an overall acne care plan, but the frequency and technique are equally important. Twice a day is more than enough; anything more can lead to dry skin and more breakouts. Show them how not to rub their face when washing or drying it as this will irritate their skin. Gently pat the skin dry with a towel. Exfoliate once a week Aside from morning and night washes, weekly exfoliation can also keep acne breakouts at bay. Monthly skin care treatments at the salon will also help the skin’s overall health. If the situation gets worse, it may be time to consult a dermatologist or skin clinic. Drink water and watch diet The types of foods we eat play a huge role in how our bodies develop. Certain foods such as dairy, sugar and processed items can lead to breakouts if they aren’t eaten in moderation. To stay hydrated, your teen should consume between six to eight glasses of water daily. * Source: Eximia Belle, eximiabelle.co.za 