Despite the hard-hitting effects of the lockdown, residents in the middle to higher income groups will again face the brunt of the increases to fund the city’s R4,8 billion budget. Employee-related costs for the 2021/22 budget total 26,6% or just over R1 billion of the total budget. A total of R25 million of this amount will go towards leave pay and long service awards. The amount budgeted for debt impairment, based on the annual revenue collection, budgeted at 85% of budgeted amount, was R250 million. Some R300 million was written off this year alone. The issue of the non-payment by Mankweng ratepayers again features in the meeting. The question also arose why customers in Seshego and Westenburg have their services cut off when payments are not made, while this is not the case in Mankweng. DA councillor Frank Haas remarked that it is illegal and discriminatory to paying residents if existing policies are not enforced in the Mankweng area. The enforcement of existing policies by officials, especially regarding the discontinuation of services in Mankweng, was discussed. Municipal revenue could be enhanced considerately if illegal land use policies, for instance, were also enforced, as they have to pay up to eight times the normal tarrifs where illegal land use take place, but the municipality conceded that their officials themselves did not always understand the by-laws. Municipal by-laws, as put forth for public participation, were not met with any objections, however, and no comments were received either. The issue of a rebate for residents who pay timeously and regularly was being considered, Polokwane Mayor Thembi Nkadimeng stated, upon which the DA stated that such a resolution was implemented by the DA years ago, had already been accepted but not implemented. Electricity tariffs were proposed to increase with 15%, based on Nersa approval, water is to increase with 8,5% and other tariffs, including property rates, with 4,6%. The more water and electricity consumers use, or the bigger the consumer’s erf, the more they pay per unit for water and electricity, as well as water, refuge and sewerage tariffs. Indigents get their quota of free water and electricity, and other services are subsidised by wealthier residents. The issue of ‘alternative’ energy provision for certain residents was queried, and the mayor explained that cooking gel was provided to some indigents that were to receive free electricity, but who lived in areas where there was no electricity provision, and they qualified for assistance. Bulk purchases of electricity have been increased by 15%, while water bulk purchases have been increased by 5%. Bulk purchases make up 23,4% of the municipality’s operating costs. A proposal was tabled by the DA to cut property rates to 2%, but this was rejected as the budget would be then be “unfunded”. Provision made for R2 million for vehicles for the new mayor and speaker following the local elections took place was queried, and questions were asked as to the condition and kilometre readings of the current vehicles used by the incumbents. An amount for R20 million budgeted for refuse removal vehicles was explained as that the municipality must decrease their reliability on contractors. The effect of the proposed demarcation of municipal wards on the beneficiaries of budgeted projects was discussed, as some projects might fall in other wards after demarcation. The proposal of councillors for time off before the forthcoming local elections was not approved, and they were informed that they remained councillors until the day before the elections on 27 October. The purchase of a high-speed fire vehicle at millions of rand for the municipal airport was queried, but Nkadimeng explained that it was necessary to be compliant with fire-related issues, and that the vehicle could also be used at the local international airport. Haas furthermore proposed a more practical approach to tariffs for entering the game reserve, especially by cyclists and people on horseback to pay a single tariff only, or an annual once-off fee.