She explained that it was after an encounter with a woman who gave her a bottle of raw sheer butter as a gift and told her to make money out of it. “She told me to make it smell nice and sell it to make extra cash. It was shocking and at the time, I had no idea what to do with it,” she said. She kept the raw sheer butter for a few months and one day she was at home bored and remembered that they say with the raw sheer butter, you can cook chicken and also put some on your hair. She was curious how that is possible. “I Googled and I was not going to work at that time. I found different ways to make it softer, more consistent and make it smell better,” she said. She started practising how to make hand lotion. She also enrolled for an online course in manufacturing skincare products. She explained that she was not aware of how big the organic community is and she learned a lot as she was doing her research. “My products are spa-grade but affordable. It feels like the products used in high-end spas, and you can feel this from the thick and consistent texture. “It is also an anti-oxidant because the key ingredients are honey and eucalyptus,” she explained. She started making skincare products for herself as a hobby. She used to make products as a stress reliever and her family started using it, then friends and from there the interest grew. “I do as much as I can without needing a qualification. Although my products are plant-based, I had to be very careful about what I felt I can risk using on other people’s skin and have tested them and they are safe. “I think my clients also feel better knowing that my products have been tested.” She started officially branding and marketing her product commercially last year. The response has been amazing. “I am ready to go big with this and I hope to create employment opportunities for other people. I plan to expand the business to other provinces,” she said. Visit her social media pages at Serore Body and Bath for more information.