Finding things to do as a family during the weekend can be challenging. Although not everyone will want to participate in the same activities, there is a way to make this happen. DIY projects can be entertaining and exciting, as well as a unique way to bring your family together. Here are some easy holiday DIY projects for the whole family: Bird feeders are a simple and enjoyable DIY project for people of all ages. Depending on the age of your children and the equipment you have, they can be simple or elaborate. To make a wooden bird feeder, start by requesting timber poles that have been cut down to a smaller size. Sand and varnish the wood to ensure that it will last for a long time outside. You can drill a hole in the pole and insert the birdseed through it. Make sure you sand the hole’s edges so you don’t get splinters while working with it. To attract more birds, paint the birdfeeder bright colors and attach small offcuts of wood to make a stand for the birds while they eat. Do you have plastic drink bottles stashed in the garage? Rather than throwing these bottles away, you can do something creative and constructive with them. Make bowling pins out of the bottles for the kids to knock over in the garden. Fill the bottles halfway with gravel or sand to give them weight, then paint them brightly. To make them more exciting, have your children draw designs on the outside with a permanent marker. A cricket ball, a soccer ball, or anything in between can be used as the ‘bowling ball.’ Homemade bowling pins will provide hours of entertainment for your children while also teaching them the importance of recycling and repurposing. Painting a pallet with chalkboard paint is a fun family activity, and the finished product is even better. Pallets can be found at local wood suppliers or hardware stores, and chalkboard paint can be found at a craft or art store. Before painting the pallet, lightly sand it to remove any sharp edges or bits of wood that could ruin the paint. You can enlist the help of your children to make this a fun family activity. Chalkboard paint is available in a variety of colours, including black, grey, and pastel shades. Your kids will be able to spend hours drawing on the pallet chalkboard, and it can become a funky focal point in your garden if you nail it to some timber poles. Many children do not consider chores to be enjoyable, but creating a chore chart can be! Make a chore chart with a corkboard, felt, and some funky material, and pin chores and important notices to it. To make a chore chart, glue the felt to the chipboard and trim away any excess around the edges with wood glue. Then, as an edging, use the material and secure it with wood glue or wood staples. Allow it to dry before sticking it to the wall with double-sided tape or placing it in an empty frame (without the glass) and hanging it. Top tip: When listing chores, use bright pins and sticky notes so that your kids enjoy using the board. Are there any old wooden clothes pegs in your house that aren’t being used? They can be recycled and reused in a variety of ways. To make spooky spiders, paint them black or brown, add three black or brown buttons to the top, and some black pipe cleaners to the bottom. You could go to an arts and crafts store and purchase some popsicle sticks to make airplane wings and tails for the clothes pegs. Your children could use paint to make crocodiles or sharks out of the pegs. The possibilities are only limited by your imagination, so let it run wild! You can display these clothes pegs in your garden by affixing them to timber poles and allowing your children to play with them outside.