We live in a world where it has never been easier to share virtually anything online. POPI will, like with everything that has to do with personal information, have an influence on social media, and we break it down for you. The main initiative behind POPI is the protection of your personal information (privacy is one of your most important rights), and this is why certain measures will be set into place starting the 1st of July 2021. Social media has changed the way most of us communicate and/or conduct business today, and we know that we cannot go without it anymore. You should be reminded that POPI Section 12(2)(a) allows information to be collected if the data subject (that’s you) publicises it willingly or when it is derived from public record. In this specific case the former is more important, as it means that if you post something on social media, you are willingly publicising information about yourself. You should, therefore, be cautious and think twice before you share something online. People may have the misconception that if you share a post only to your friends, followers or contacts, that it won’t stretch further than that. Someone can forward or take a screenshot of whatever you shared and further expose that information to a wider audience. You won’t be protected from this happening, as you published it yourself the first time, and thus gave consent to share that information further. What about influencers? Technically, influencers on social media must be held to the same standard as a normal marketing company. An influencer’s audience needs to be made aware that they are being paid (with money, product supply or any other official business transaction). This can be done with a hashtag or comment, that clearly states that the post is an ad and done for marketing purposes. If an influencer receives a gift from a brand, they also have to declare it (as a method of payment). It is their own responsibility to ensure that the content they publish is true and dependable. If you own a parody account, it should be obviously described as such to avoid possible misunderstandings. Agencies and marketers must take everything they know about self-regulation in advertising and apply it to social media and influencer marketing — the same rules apply. Make sure to read our next story about POPI and how she will affect the world of telemarketers and real estate.If you’d like to know more and get the easiest solution for your business to comply with POPI, fill in the form below: