Despite legalisation around the use of cannabis for persons over the age of 18 years for private use, police in the city have warned that this does not mean residents are free to grow and sell cannabis as they wish. Police Spokesperson Brigadier Motlafela Mojapelo issued a stern warning saying the police will not hesitate to take action against those found in contravention of the laws relating to dagga.  The warning came after the police raided a smallholding on Percy Fyfe in the Westenburg policing area where 200 dagga trees with an estimated street value of R250 000 were discovered. Two people were arrested. Mojapelo said residents who consume cannabis need to make themselves aware of the cannabis legislation and what it entails. “The police will act without hesitation against anyone who trades in dagga or is found in possession of huge quantities thereof. Since the Deputy Chief Justice legalised the use of dagga, people tend to think they may also trade in it.” Mojapelo also warned all communities that trading in and or being in possession of huge amounts of dagga is still illegal. He says anyone found in possession of huge quantities of dagga, whether plantation or bags, will be arrested without fear or favour. Mojapelo referred to the arrests of the two persons last week, aged 26 and 28 respectively. Despite the charges they will face relating to cannabis, they were also found to be in unlawful possession of a firearm and ammunition. According to Mojapelo the duo were charged with cultivation and possession of cannabis after they were found with large bags and containers full of cannabis.  “When the police searched the area they were able to discover an additional 200 cannabis trees with an estimated street value of over R250 000.” They were expected to appear in the local magistrate’s court earlier this week. The Bill on the private use of cannabis, which was passed by Legislature and gazetted in 2020 states that only persons over the age of 18 may consume cannabis in private and only cannabis which they cultivate themselves.  No person is allowed to receive money in exchange for cannabis and the maximum amount of cannabis that may be gifted to one person from another free of charge is 30 seeds or seedlings, one flowering cannabis plant or 100 grams of dried cannabis. In a private dwelling, one may legally have an unlimited number of seeds, but can only have four cannabis plants per adult or eight cannabis plants per two adult persons in one dwelling. The person is also only allowed to have 600 grams of dried cannabis per person or 1 200 grams per dwelling which is occupied by two adults. In public a person is only allowed to carry 100 grams of dried cannabis or one flowering plant which may only be cultivated or use in private.