With aging the primary need is to be well, to retain the ability to function optimally or more important, to improve it. This need translates in practical terms that you can care for yourself – even with everyday easy daily tasks like taking a shower or a bath without assistance, or to prepare your own meals, as you get older. When you take responsibility for your health, you are in control of improving your health status and in reducing general health risks as you get older. Do not wait for your doctor to recommend that you change your lifestyle – take control and initiative! Your doctor, dietician, and physiotherapist may assist you with the how. Traditionally a view that ‘lifestyle changes later in life does not matter’ assumed that changing to a healthy lifestyle in the aging adult would not make a difference to quality of life. There is now however ample evidence that lifestyle changes including a regular exercise training programme, the moderate use of alcohol, cessation of cigarette smoking, to remain socially active in the community where you reside and to keep mentally active, for many reasons lead not only to added years to life but – more importantly – to life to years or increased quality of life. These proposed lifestyle changes also have a positive impact on the management and prevention of chronic diseases like high blood pressure and diabetes mellitus. The one certainty is that if you continue with an unhealthy lifestyle, it will lead to faster deterioration of functional abilities and dependence on support services. Realistically, the lifestyle changes proposed by your family doctor may sound like the advice you received when you were young – eat healthy food, exercise regularly, stop smoking, lose weight, drink moderately. But in the older person these changes must be more comprehensive and consider very specific adaptations that considers your personal functional status, chronic diseases and social circumstances.  To be “well” also means that you have to focus on every aspect of your “being” – the physical, mental, psychological, emotional, and spiritual aspects. It is never too late to quit smoking! Get into a regular daily routine including time for getting up, mealtimes and bedtime. A healthy diet Following a healthy diet means lots of vegetables, salads and fruits which can all contribute to improved physical, mental, and general health. The reality in the elderly is that other factors may have an impact on unhealthy dietary practices i.e., ill-fitting dentures which make chewing difficult or there may be a loss of the important senses of smell and taste that decrease the desire to eat. Do not underestimate the impact of underlying depression. So again, a holistic approach that includes opinions from your family doctor, a dentist, a dietician, and psychologist is very important. Remember to have at least one healthy meal per day and take a vitamin/mineral supplement daily. The responsible use of alcohol The moderate use of alcohol may even have a beneficial effect on health.  “Moderate“ in this context refers to 1 glass of wine or one 375ml bottle  of beer or one 44ml tot of distilled liquor – try not to take alcohol more than five days per week. So, start by taking stock of how “moderate” your consumption of alcohol is! Regular exercise The value of exercise has been researched expansively. Exercise for the older person includes a range of activities that includes endurance exercise, muscle strengthening by lifting weights that improve muscle mass and can decrease the risk of getting osteoporosis. Stretching exercises can improve mobility in general and flexibility. These exercises can improve your balance and will reduce your risk of falling which in itself will prevent all the unpleasant and serious injuries associated with falls in the elderly. The evidence suggests that even when you start with regular exercise late in life it contributes to improved physical, mental, and cognitive functioning and wellbeing and contact with life! Start with 10 minutes a day and gradually work up to 30 minutes per day. Exercise can take many forms i.e., walking to the café daily to buy your newspaper, gardening, regular sports like golf, tennis and bowls, Yoga or Pilates or swimming. The social interaction associated when you join groups for exercise is already beneficial to wellbeing. Do not forget dancing as a very enjoyable exercise. Set goals for your fitness levels and regularly test yourself against these goals. Get enough sleep After a good night’s rest, you will be able to function better during the day. Good sleep hygiene includes to avoid coffee, nicotine, and alcohol before going to bed, restrict intake of fluids during the evening, restrict a nap during the day to 30 minutes, get more exercise and spend time outdoors during late afternoon. Actively participate socially The prevention of loneliness and social isolation is one of the big challenges to overcome in aging individuals. Being socially active prevents boredom, which is so common in elderly people, from creeping in. Schedule regular visits with family and friends and participate in organised social activities in the community where you live. Research has shown that that the cognitive vitality of elderly people who remain socially active in their communities are preserved. Do something for people in need If you are blessed with good health, make a difference to people in need. Actively identify, phone, visit, take them out and just be there for them. Not only will it bring lots of personal satisfaction, but it will also boost your wellness. Interaction with your family doctor, who is your partner on the journey of optimal wellbeing, is crucial. But other professionals in your healthcare team now also play an important role – your dentist, physiotherapist, dietician, optometrist, audiologist and caregiver or companion, who may play a bigger role as one gets older. * For more information visit www.medwell.co.za