If you’re a keen birder, you’ll probably have heard of James Rawdon, who originally studied biology and worked for many years in the South African and Botswana bush and has always been involved in nature and conservation and had a keen interest in birds. He pursued bird ringing as a hobby, obtained his bird-ringing license in more than a decade ago and has been ringing birds (and sharing his passion for birds) at various sites in and around KwaZulu-Natal ever since.  “Bird ringing allows you to see the birds up close”, he says, “and it provides a wonderful opportunity to teach children and adults about birds, conservation and the preservation of their natural resources.” He going to be sharing his knowledge at the Starlight Production Bird Ringing Weekend, at Thanda Safari from Friday to Sunday, June 25 to June 27. Besides enjoying four game drives, guests will actually join in on the bird ringing exercise – actually getting to handle, hold and release the birds.  For those who prefer a weekend with a little exercise thrown in, a great option is the Run Wild Weekend at the same venue. This is a chance for walkers, joggers, runners and their friends and families to experience the vast open spaces, the magnificent terrain and the wildlife of Thanda Safari … on foot! With the safety of guests being of the utmost importance this exciting and exhilarating experience will be under the supervision and watchful eye of an anti-poaching unit. It’s planned for Friday to Sunday July 16 to 18, and promises to be great fun. The rates for these weekends start at R2 995 per person sharing at Tented Camp (R5 990 per person/ R11 980 per couple for a two-night stay), which includes accommodation – in the luxurious Thanda Tented Camp -spacious colonial safari-style tents, each with private viewing deck and en-suite bathroom, two game drives daily with guide and tracker, all meals and selected local beverages (soft drinks, house wines, spirits and beers). Excluded is a conservation levy of R200 per person per stay, as well as gratuities and all items of a personal nature. Booking is essential. Details: reservations@thanda.co.za or phone 032 586 0149