For homes with double volume space, wrap-around windows, strong architectural lines, and lofted ceilings there is always the dilemma: how to fill it in a way that showcases the space. That’s where large indoor plants come in. They fill floor to ceiling space, taking the eye upwards or drawing it towards a corner where natural light floods in. The height, texture and greenery bring colour and life to a calming neutral colour scheme. Large plants can act as room dividers, as focal points, or as a transition from indoors to out.  Ficus varieties like the Fiddle-leaf fig (Ficus lyrata) or Ficus elastica ‘Robusta’ (rubber plant) are traditional indoor trees that not only bring the outdoors inside but can be used as natural room dividers. They do best with good indirect light, tolerate ordinary household temperatures and should not be over-watered. They are also powerful air-purifying plants.  The ZZ plant (Zamioculcas) is the new go-to plant for indoor decorators wanting to match the modern geometry of contemporary homes. The glossy green leaves and strong cycad-like stems, certainly make a statement, especially when placed in planters that provide a pop of colour. The look is sleek and sophisticated. The ZZ grows in low light as well as bright light and even morning sun, as long as it doesn’t dry out. Keep the large green leaves looking shiny by feeding with pot-plant food once every six months. With their graceful, feathery foliage, Acraea palms bring colour, texture, lightness and even warmth to this clean and bright bathroom. The white ceramic planters complement the white tiles and walls, while their arrangement fills the space so that the palms become the main feature in the room and increase its humidity.  Palms like bright, high light and watering when the surface of the potting soil starts to dry out. Don’t let them stand in water.  Those difficult-to-fill spaces, like under a staircase, can easily look cluttered or just stay bare. Greening it up adds life and colour, while adding a perfect accent to the room. Spathiphyllum ‘Sensation’ is a giant version of the traditional peace lily, growing up to 1m with massive white flowers. Obviously, its air purifying properties are in proportion to its large leaf space. Create a green lung within the home with a collection of large and compact varieties that are happy to grow in low to medium light with watering once a week in summer, less in winter. Wipe down its leaves to keep them looking good and effective.  Ficus ginseng (bonsai) is more than just an indoor plant. It indicates harmony, wisdom and calm and is usually the choice of people who like balance in their life. The natural wood finishes in this room harmonise perfectly with the pottery planter for this magnificent specimen. The height of the tree also draws the eye upwards. It is perfectly proportioned for this large room. This bonsai Ficus is easy to care for and tolerates overwatering. Place it close to a north or east facing window that receives strong, indirect light. Water once a day in summer and every three days in winter. It helps to purify the air. Visit: www.lvgplants.co.za 