Limpopo went from recording on average fewer than 200 new cases daily to almost double that number. The last Covid-19 statistics, released by the provincial department were on Sunday, 20 June. The number of new cases reported in this 24-hour cycle was 471 with Polokwane responsible for 84 of the new cases. Since then no daily Covid-19 statistics were released by the department. In a statement on Wednesday, 16 June, Health MEC, Dr Phophi Ramathuba expressed concern over a cluster outbreak in the Capricorn district with Polokwane contributing to a majority of these new cases. “Capricorn district has an ongoing cluster of cases at Marobathota High School which has attributed to the increase in cases. The department has dispatched its response teams to affected institutions and organisations to assist with tracing, screening, testing, quarantine and isolation which are still effective way to contain any cluster outbreaks.” Polokwane Observer posed some questions to the department and the MEC’s Spokesperson, Thilivhali Muavha was able to confirm that most of the cases emanate from super spreader events which have been on the rise in the city. “Polokwane is the centre of the province, for business, shopping and entertainment, a spike in cases was bound to happen after national announced that a third wave was anticipated, but as a department we were trying our best to delay it as long as possible. We have picked up that these small events being hosted in the city, whether social or even family-orientated such as weddings and funerals, have contributed to the rise in cases. Looking at the spike in cases it is safe to say we are going into the third wave and this is the time for those who have been lenient on the regulations to start adhering full force.” The MEC is calling upon people to desist from attending social gatherings where practicing social distance, wearing of masks and hand sanitising has become impossible to practice. “The department continues to remind people not to get used to the virus, but remain vigilant and do their part in curbing its spread. Together we can win this battle and defeat the third wave,” she said.