Never, ever put these things into your dishwasher. If there’s a bowl, vase, or any dish that you love and have had for years, don’t even think about tossing it in the dishwasher. Sure, it might survive a few times, but you’ll regret the one time it chips or breaks. The same goes for dishware with gold rims and delicate china or silverware – wash them by hand to preserve their shine. Run out of dishwasher tabs? Never substitute with dishwashing liquid unless you want your kitchen home to become a giant bubble bath. The heat from the water in the dishwasher and during the drying period can melt or change the chemical make-up of the container and it can become unsafe to use for food. If you put copper pans in the dishwasher, it will make them look rusty. Even if you use them every day, wash them by hand if you want them to stay shiny. Due to the high-heat temperatures of your dishwasher when it’s running, wood is also at risk of altering its consistency. To maintain your wooden boards and spoons properly, wet a scrubbing pad in warm soapy water and wash them with it. Then rinse the utensils under warm water again. And a secret hack to keep them looking like new is to oil them once a month. You might be nervous to clean your crystal glasses by hand, but the dishwasher can do even more damage with its high temperature and close proximity to other items, causing your crystal to crack, chip and lose shine. To clean your crystal properly, warm up two cups of vinegar and pour it into a larger container. Place glasses or bowls into the vinegar and soak for three to five minutes. Rinse with clear water. Don’t be surprised if you put your grater in the dishwasher and it still looks dirty afterwards. A dishwasher simply can’t pick up all of the cheese bits hidden deep inside so you’re better off washing it by hand. Although some dishwashing machines have a special knife rack, the dishwasher cycles and the abrasive detergents will still dull the sharp blades. Rather wash them by hand and dry them carefully with a towel. Your pet’s bowls are likely to have bacteria in them. Wash them by hand and leave them to air dry. * Source: Reader’s Digest: rd.com