Kershnee Kallee, Marketing Manager at Jungle has a few brilliant ideas for simple yet delicious breakfast dishes that can be tackled alone or with the whole family. For the super dad: Banana ‘Mancakes’ Here’s one for the dads who can do anything, from saving you when you’re stranded roadside with a flat tyre, to calling and telling you to keep your chin up when you’re having one of “those days”. Hats off to dads like these for their tenacity and superhuman, multi-tasking abilities – where would we be without you? You’ll need: 1 ½ cups Jungle Oat Bran; 1 teaspoon baking powder; ½ teaspoon ground cinnamon; 2 large ripe bananas; 1 tablespoon honey or maple syrup; 1 egg; 1 cup low-fat milk + more for thinning out if needed; 1 teaspoon vanilla essence; pinch of salt. How to: Add Jungle Oat Bran, baking powder, cinnamon, bananas, honey or maple syrup, egg, milk, vanilla essence and salt to a blender. Blend until smooth. If you’re using add-ins, stir them in now. The mixture may have thickened in the blender, so stir in more milk one tablespoon at a time to thin out, if needed. Add oil or spray-and-cook to a pan or skillet over medium heat. Pour in about a 1/3 a cup of batter per pancake and cook until all bubbles have popped (about 2-3 minutes). Flip over and cook for one more minute. Repeat until all pancakes have been cooked. Top with more banana slices, a small drizzle of honey or maple syrup, nuts or desired toppings and serve immediately.  For the health-nut dad: Swiss Oats Breakfast (must make the night before) Some dads are the kind of men who keep their eye on the calories, track their daily steps and make sure they get enough shut-eye to stay on top of their game. For those dads, we’ve got something that will refuel his engine and get his day started with something that’s both tasty and nutritious. You’ll need: 500ml Jungle Oats; 250ml milk; 1l yoghurt (flavour of your choice); 30ml lemon juice; 30ml honey; 2 apples coarsely grated; 100ml dried fruit and/ or nuts; pinch of salt; the fruit of your choice for garnishing (optional). How to: Mix Jungle Oats, yoghurt and milk and leave overnight in the fridge. Blend lemon juice, honey, apple, dried fruit, nuts and salt into the mixture. Serve in cereal bowls, garnished with the fruit of your choice.  For the dad on-the-go: Bran Muffins Do you know those dads who can’t stay in bed? They’re usually the ones who just have to get up and potter around the garden or head off to the garage to fix something. Well for those dads, we have the perfect breakfast option – all you have to do is wake up before him, get your bake on and pack a basket for him to enjoy. You’ll need: 250ml full cream buttermilk; 375ml Jungle Oat Bran; 5ml vanilla essence; 1 large egg; 80ml canola or sunflower or coconut oil; 150ml treacle (dark brown) sugar; 250ml self-raising flour; spray-and-cook; Jungle Oats or any seeds of your choice for decoration. How to: Preheat the oven to 200°C. In a small bowl, mix the buttermilk, Jungle Oat Bran and the vanilla essence, and set it aside for a few minutes to soak in. In a large bowl, beat the egg and the treacle (dark brown) sugar together for 30 to 40 seconds until well blended. Add the oil to the egg and sugar mixture and beat again. Lastly, add the buttermilk, Jungle Oat Bran and vanilla essence mixture and beat together until well blended. Grease a muffin tin with Spray-and-Cook and fill each section almost full with batter. A 7.5cm diameter muffin tin will make about nine muffins. Sprinkle with a handful of Jungle Oats or seeds of your choice. Bake for 15 to 20 minutes until ready. Smaller muffins will bake faster so check them after about 13 minutes or so. These tasty and healthy muffins are super delicious served with cheese, jam and/or bacon. They stay fresh and moist for days, so store them in an airtight container and dad can take them to work too – if they last that long!  For the dad with a sweet tooth: Do you know a dad that can’t resist a sweet treat, so much so that he’ll even indulge in something decadent for breakfast? Well, for those dads, we’ve got the perfect treat – and it’s healthy too! Packed with proteins, these brownies contain no wheat flour or eggs, making them a great breakfast option. With these, chocolate for breakfast is definitely an option. You’ll need: 6 small to medium bananas weighing with the skin ±650g; 200g butter, soft or slightly melted; 160ml Jungle Instant Oats; 160ml Jungle Plus Protein Porridge; 160ml unsweetened cocoa powder; 6 tablespoons dark brown (treacle) sugar; 7.5ml vanilla essence; 80g Dark or Milk or Ivory Cream Beacon chocolate slab (add last); spray-and-ook; ovenproof dish (20 x 20cm in diameter). How to: Preheat the oven to 165°C. Peel and mash the bananas. Place all the ingredients (except for the slab of chocolate) together in a food processor with the cut knife and blend through until well blended. Grate the slab of chocolate and fold in through the thick batter. Grease the ovenproof dish. Bake for 60 minutes until cooked through. Test with a metal skewer and if a few crumbs are on the skewer it will be fine as it will continue cooking a little more in the dish. When almost cool, place in the fridge to set nicely before slicing. Store in the fridge in an airtight container. These brownies freeze extremely well too. Delicious served as is or with a little sieved icing sugar or a topping of your choice.