Herbs are an important aspect of cooking good and healthy food, but the prospect of having to continuously buy them fresh may not be appealing. In this case, it may be a worthwhile idea to consider growing some in your kitchen. In addition to playing a huge role in healthier cooking, growing your own herbs will help you save money and be a fun hobby to partake in. Here’s what you need to know about growing herbs in your kitchen: The types of herbs you can grow in your kitchen Perennial herbs are considered some of the easiest herbs to grow. You can grow them from cuttings, small plants from your garden, or you can purchase them from a plant shop. Perennial herbs include plants such as oregano, chives, thyme, rosemary, mint, and more. Things to remember before growing herbs Pests can hamper your herbs’ ability to flourish, so it’s important to make sure that there are no pests such as aphids, scale, and spider mites on your herbs when you purchase them from a plant shop or bring them into your kitchen from your garden. If your herbs are infested with scale or aphids, you’ll see sticky droppings around your herbs. Spider mites usually leave tiny webs between the plants’ leaves. Pests can be easily removed by washing herbs with warm soapy water and to prevent the infestation from spreading to other herbs. It’s recommended that plants are spaced out when placed in your kitchen. It’s also important to note that herbs should be grown in pots with good drainage. Places you can grow herbs in your kitchen North-facing windows receive great natural light and are the perfect place to grow tropical and sub-tropical herbs such as oregano, basil, rosemary, thyme, rosemary, and bay laurel. The best part is that even during winter, they will get more sunlight here than other parts of the home, making them a great spot to place the above-mentioned herbs all year round. Herbs such as mint, chives, and parsley require less intense light, which is why west-facing and east-facing windows are a great spot for them. Grow lights are excellent for growing herbs in your kitchen. It’s recommended that the lights stay on for 12 to 16 hours for plants that prefer bright lights. Grow lights also come with instructions that guide how to use them effectively. The best herbs to consider growing in your kitchen ● Basil – A key ingredient in many famous food recipes, it flourishes in bright light and heat. It’ll grow well in a sunny window as well as with a grow light. Be sure to avoid placing it in cool spots during the winter season and keep in mind that basil can only be used for several weeks before its stems become woody. Basil should be replanted every few weeks for this reason. ● Parsley – It can be grown from seeds or transplanted from your garden into a pot. Parsley loves the full sun, although it can also grow well in partial sun. It should be grown in moist and loamy soil. ● Mint – There are various types of mint for you to choose from. These include peppermint, chocolate mint, spearmint, and more. Mint soil should be rich and composted and also kept moist. Mint plants prefer strong light and they can easily handle high temperatures. ● Chives – This onion-like herb grows well with bright light and full sun. The soil should always be kept moist and fertile through composting. ● Rosemary – Although it grows in almost all light conditions, rosemary prefers the sun. Composted soil that is well-drained is perfect for growing rosemary plants. ● Thyme – This is a hardy herb that should only be watered once the topsoil is dry. It should be potted in soil that drains well and is composted. Sunny and warm windows are best for allowing this plant to flourish. Growing herbs in your kitchen is beneficial for cooking, will save you money, and serves as an indoor gardening hobby that is great for destressing.