You’ll need: 2 Tbsp butter; 2 medium leeks, sliced; 250g shiitake mushrooms, sliced; 1 Tbsp top quality truffle oil. For the cheese sauce: 2 Tbsp butter; 2 Tbsp all-purpose flour; 2 ½ cups full-cream milk; ½ cup cheddar cheese, finely grated; ½ cup Huguenot / Havarti or similar cheese, finely grated; ½ cup Parmesan, finely grated; 1 tsp mustard powder; 1 tsp sea salt flakes; 300g short pasta of choice e.g. rigatoni or shells. For the topping: 2 Tbsp butter; ½ cup panko breadcrumbs; ¼ cup finely grated Parmesan; 2 tsp fresh thyme leaves; salt and pepper, to taste. How to: Melt butter in a frying pan and add the leeks and mushrooms. Season with salt and pepper. Cook until tender and golden brown. Pour over the truffle oil, stir and remove from the heat. Set aside. Melt butter in a frying pan and add the leeks and mushrooms. Season with salt and pepper. Cook until tender and golden brown. Pour over the truffle oil, stir and remove from the heat. Set aside. (You can make the béchamel in an ovenproof pan / shallow casserole from the beginning or else transfer everything to an ovenproof dish at the end to bake.) Melt the butter in a shallow buffet casserole over medium-high. When it begins to foam, sprinkle flour over and cook, stirring constantly, until the butter and flour mixture starts to smell like biscuits and takes on a lightly golden colour. Slowly drizzle in the milk, in a few additions, whisking constantly to ensure a smooth béchamel. Bring béchamel sauce to a boil, then reduce heat and simmer. Simmer for about 5 minutes until sauce thickens. Switch off the heat. Add the mustard powder, salt and 3 types of cheese. Stir until all of the cheese has melted and the sauce is smooth. Mix in the leek & mushroom mixture. And then finally mix in the pasta. Taste to adjust seasoning. Preheat oven to 180°C. For the topping: Melt butter in a medium non-stick frying pan over medium heat. Add panko and cook until the crumbs are nicely golden brown. Remove from the heat and toss with Parmesan, fresh thyme leaves and a little pinch of salt and pepper. Scatter breadcrumb topping all over the truffled mac & cheese. Bake for 15 minutes until the cheese sauce is bubbling around the edges and the topping is crisp and deeply golden brown. Serve truffle mac & cheese with a fresh green side salad and a glass of FAT bastard Merlot. About the wine: It is made from carefully selected grapes to produce a ripe-flavoured and silky-textured wine. All fruit is gently pressed to retain fruit aromas and character. The wine is aged in small oak barrels, adding greater weight and complexity. With a deep ruby hue, our Merlot boasts aromas of ripe berries leading to a juicy palate of summer fruits and black cherry with soft, rounded tannins to finish. The magnificently, big-hearted FAT bastard Merlot 2017 received a Gold Award from Gold Wine Awards 2019, which showcases excellent wines. Life is good! * Recipe & image by Fat Bastard Wine.