Working from home has its benefits, but there are also many distractions such as household chores and the kid’s homework, lack of routine or unhealthy boundaries. Get control over working-home life so that your productivity levels stay where they need to be. Working from your warm bed on a cold winter’s morning with coffee and rusks might sound too good to be true, but it’s more important to have a designated workspace at home that you go to every day to create a boundary between your work and home life. Ideally, it should be a separate room with a good source of natural light or space away from noise and distractions. If you spend most of your day at a desk, make sure the ergonomics of your workspace are right. A few small changes can make the world of difference in reducing lower back pain and tension headaches. Working from home has many benefits, but you can get easily distracted with household chores, homework or scrolling through social media. You must manage your time properly so that you can include your exercise, the housework and shopping, a lunch hour and breaks in your day. One of the worst – and most addictive – distractions is social media. Turn off all your notifications and links so you can focus on work instead. It’s easy for family members, friends or flatmates to forget that you’re actually working at home. You may need to have a chat with everyone so that they are aware of your working hours and appreciate the type of environment you need. This can be really hard to juggle with kids so it’s up to you to make work time and family time, not forgetting time out too. Start your day off so that you can get into a professional mindset; practise an hour of meditation or go and exercise, get dressed, have breakfast and then ‘go’ to work. Have a schedule and plan your day accordingly, then switch off so you get the rest you need. As the end of the day approaches, update your to-do list, check tomorrow’s schedule and finish your day on a positive note. How often should you take breaks and how long should they last? * Sources: unitemps.com; ergo-plus.com 