The Khoisan can now be part of the partial decision-making in the country and the National Khoisan Kingdom, while the Abbaquar-San Royal House as its paramount fraternity, can no longer be excluded. Khoebaha King HRM Thomas Edgar Brown (1) arrived with his Queen HRM Janet Brown, along with their followers from the house. King Thomas said the Khoisans are now official and legitimate. This comes after President Cyril Ramaphosa announced in March that the Traditional and Khoisan Leadership Act would come into effect from 1 April. Ramaphosa said that the country’s Khoi and San leaders will, after following the prescribed processes, for the first time enjoy official recognition and will serve in the national and provincial houses. During the meeting a few pointers were highlighted; the facilitation of the association kingdom entails to facilitate co-ordinate and represent the rights and interests of the Indigenous People of South Africa and wherever it shall be possible. To further the cultural religious, linguistic, political social economic rights and interests of the indigenous people of Africa by advocacy, monitoring, investigating lobbying, networking, research, exchange of information, mutual support and whatever other means are appropriate. More pointers that were mentioned were to generally further the capacity of member organisation by providing funding and other assistance and support and to enable them to achieve the individual objectives on behalf of the Indigenous People of South Africa. To facilitate and enable member organisations, by providing funding and other assistance to attend and contribute to the programmes and activities of organisations under the hospice of the Non-Khoekhoe (NKK). “The passing of the act is a historical event that officially and for the first time acknowledges the Khoisan Leadership,” King Thomas said. He further explained that the passing of this act strengthens the different bodies in the National Khoisan Kingdom to coordinate and represent the bright and interesting indigenous people of South Africa and to further rights and interests. This also furthers the capacity of enabling and developing a true South African culture and national talent. King Thomas also mentioned that the Khoi and the San were the first indigenous people in Southern Africa and they lived by the spirit of Ubuntu. “It is bitterly painful when a nation’s history is incorrectly recorded. He said the issue is not a political matter, but cultural. “We find healing by investigating and researching the facts. Your identity is being regained and your pride is being restored. The government is beginning to respect us. The Abakwa San is no longer unknown, we know our identity, but we do not condemn others who are still searching. We say; come sit with us. Let’s reason and find your identity.” At the end of the launch, King Thomas blessed and recognised some married couples who got married in the Abbaquar-San Royal House under him as a customary marriage and were awarded marriage certificates, which are recognised under the customary marriage Act 120 of 1998. “These are marriage certificates signed by his majesty, the King. These couples feel they have concluded their journey of what it was from the beginning when they said ‘I do’. “This is the pride that I want to hand over to them as the first indigenous concluding their culture in a proper way,” the King said.