Early childhood development and learning should be viewed as a journey rather than a race. Preschool should be a rich, multisensory experience that matches a child’s developmental age and stage, even if it follows a formal curriculum. According to research, a child’s cognitive development is inextricably linked to her social and emotional development, which begins both in the classroom and at home. Here are some fundamental building blocks for maximising early learning for children: While it’s easy to hand over a tablet or cellphone to your little one to keep her occupied, it doesn’t give her a real, 3D, or multisensory experience of the world. Rather ditch the phone or iPad and encourage these activities instead: We all know about the five senses – hearing, seeing, touching, tasting, and smelling – but few parents are aware of how to develop these “invisible” senses. Here are a few ways you can help your child develop their senses while having fun at the same time: Did you know that every movement your child makes is a sensory experience that physically grows the size of her brain and wires it for academic learning later on? All children are born to move. Encourage large movements known as gross motor, as well as small movements, known as fine motor. Both are needed for your child to learn how to coordinate the different parts of her body with her eyes, and to get both sides of her body working together. To encourage your child to move, promote: It may seem boring when your little one wants to do the same thing over and over again, or hear the same songs, or watch the same movie, but for her, this is how she consolidates her learning. Repetition helps your child build strong neurological pathways in the brain. It’s a fact: for a memory cell to be formed in the brain (called an engram), the same movement must be performed at least 200 to 300 times! The preschool years are actually all about your child pulling things apart and putting them back together again. This is how she learns about the world around her. Just look at an eight- to 12-month-old and how she’ll pull all the tissues out of the box, the Tupperware out of the cupboard, or knock down the tower you have built. Then, from about two-and-a-half years of age, she’ll start understanding she can put things together − whether she’s stacking something, matching shapes, or building puzzles. Beyond exposing your children to a variety of age-appropriate and stimulating experiences at home, it’s important to ensure she is well socialised with other children. This is where preschool and teachers come into play. The many benefits of sending children to preschool include: 