Gender issues pertaining to women are falling through the cracks, according to Limpopo South African Human Rights Commission (SAHRC) Provincial Manager, Victor Mavidula. “Gender mainstreaming is not there anymore, and there is a push-back from men who do not believe women can fill senior positions,” he said, adding that the situation is especially bad in Limpopo, where men must take the responsibility to help advance women’s careers. “We must be more gender-sensitive and create a conducive environment for women to grow. They are the ones responsible for strong families, and social ills are the result of men not supporting women. The majority of victims of violence are women and for abuse to be reduced, women must be supported,” Mavhidula told stakeholders from various departments, Chapter 9 organisations and municipalities. He said it was necessary to talk about gender in the workplace, where women still mostly occupy junior positions and at home, where women are victims of violence. “In the workplace one doesn’t see the victim, but the consequences of the violence against women.” He said some cases reported about violence against women are simply shocking. An event to launch the South African Human Rights Women and Gender Forum was held in Polokwane, as in all other provinces, last Friday, as people and organisations are working in isolation to address gender issues. The SAHRC wants to create more awareness and as Mavhidula said, coordinating efforts may have a more positive outcome in addressing the issues. Advocate Lybon Maluleke explained that the mandate of the SAHRC was to promote respect for human rights and the culture thereof, to protect and monitor human rights in all spheres of society, do workshops and outreach campaigns and ensure people’s rights in accordance to the Constitution are not infringed. The SAHRC also does research and monitor legislation so it does not go against human rights and as such protect the development and attainment of human rights. Any person or organisation may lodge a complaint at the SAHRC, but they can also, on their own accord, investigate issues on social media, after visits to towns or hospitals and organs of state or private individuals and make findings. Complaints can be laid at the SAHRC offices or a form downloaded from their website. They can institute legal proceedings after making a finding. If a complaint has been filed which does not fall under their jurisdiction, they can also refer the complainant to the correct forum where a complaint can be lodged. The SAHRC also has Human Rights Ambassadors in various communities assisting them in their task, as they cannot have offices in all districts of the province. Workplaces can form their own Women and Gender Forums in consultation with and with the support of management and can be helpful in assisting with issues such as equity and sexual harassment in the workplace, for instance. SAHRC branches in all provinces joined a virtual meeting to light a candle for their fallen colleagues, listened to various messages of encouragement and supported and celebrated the launch of the initiative.