South Africa is known for being a great holiday destination by both local and international tourists alike. From blue-flag beaches to wildlife safaris, with a variety of accommodation options including country guesthouses, hotels and more — there’s a holiday destination suited for various tastes and budgets. Have a look at some of the top holiday resorts in South Africa to consider for your next vacation: Zimbali finds itself along the North Coast of KwaZulu-Natal. Located a few minutes away from King Shaka international airport, this breathtaking holiday resort is the definition of luxury. With two 5-star hotels on its premises, the resort offers spectacular accommodation that overlooks the crystal blue Indian Ocean and provides fine dining with incredible service. At Zimbali, you’ll also have access to a world-renowned golf course, a health club, kids club, 3 expansive outdoor pools, tennis and squash courts and a spa, perfect for unwinding and truly getting into holiday mode. Added to this, there’s a private beach accessible to guests only. For guests wanting to venture away from the resort, there are attractions available in Durban and Ballito just a stone’s throw away. Arguably the most famous resort on the list, Sun City has a variety of facilities that make for an eventful and fun holiday. The resort offers a variety of accommodation options to suit every pocket. Whether you’re looking to enjoy the luxury of the 5-star Palace of the Lost City or just a budget-friendly hotel for your family vacation, Sun City has something for you. Facilities at Sun City include a beach, wave pool, waterpark, hot air balloon rides, water sports, a casino, and more. The Pilanesberg Nature Reserve is also in the vicinity if you’re looking to enjoy a safari experience. It’s guaranteed that you’ll never run out of things to do while you’re here! The Shamwari Riverdene Family Lodge is one of the best resort options for a family vacation. Activities here include guided game drives where you can spot the Big 5 and other game. Why not enjoy the onsite pool while taking in the glorious view of the nature that surrounds you. There are also fun activities for children to enjoy at the lodge such as rock climbing, arts and craft, and more. This holiday resort is perfect for those looking to get away from it all. Located in Mpumalanga on the Long Tom Pass, this Natural Heritage Site offers magnificent views of the surrounding mountain range and the Lowveld. Family units and a farmhouse are the country style accommodation options available for guests to book from. The amenities at this holiday resort include a games room, a children’s playground, an outdoor chess board, and a swimming pool. Fun activities like quad biking, cycling, and hiking are also available for guests to partake in. For added adventure, guests can explore the Mpumalanga escarpment which includes the majestic wonders of nature; God’s Window, the Blyde River Canyon, Bourke’s Luck Potholes and The Pinnacle. The Kruger National Park is also in the vicinity, perfect if you’re planning to undertake a safari daytrip. Monkey Valley Resort is situated 25 minutes away from the Cape Town city centre. It is surrounded by a nature reserve as well as a forest of giant milkwood trees and offers access to the beach just 8 kilometres away. The resort provides uninterrupted panoramic views of the sea and nearby Chapman’s Peak. Amenities at Monkey Valley include a herbal sauna, swimming pools, a spa, and children’s play area. There are also a range of fun outdoor activities in the area such as birding, horse riding on the beach, a scenic drive along Chapman’s Peak, wine tasting, golfing, and more. If you’re planning your next vacation, you should consider adding one of the five above holiday resorts in South Africa as your destination.