If the thought of throwing a birthday party for your child makes you want to start a savings account and plan a year in advance, this article is for you! The good news is that it is possible to throw an epic birthday for your child – on a budget and with as little stress as possible. Here’s how: Parties at home are great for first and second birthdays. Children this age are still quite egocentric, require constant supervision and are not quite ready to grasp the party concept. If you don’t have the space at home, ask friends or family if you can have it at their place. If you are hiring a venue, take into account how much it will cost, how big it has to be, and what time of year it is – do you need an indoor or outdoor venue? For a first birthday, you will want to include everyone as it’s such a milestone event. But as a rule of thumb for subsequent parties, try to limit the number of children to 10 or less for a second birthday and less than 12 for a third birthday. From four onwards children start to have ‘favourite’ friends, so they’ll more than likely want to compile their own guest list. You also won’t feel obliged to invite every blood relation you have, and they won’t feel obliged to come either. When it comes to décor, go easy. A few matching party boxes, serviettes, balloons, table cloth and banner in a theme or colour is all you need, plus the invites. The themed party plates will end up in the dustbin anyway. Children have small appetites, so huge quantities will go to waste. Keep it simple. As long as they recognise it and can hold it in their hands, they’ll eat it. The snacks and treats should be fun and appetising, so get creative. Great party foods for kids include fish fingers, mini hot dogs, chicken nuggets, sandwich animals with jam, peanut butter and cheese spread, cocktail viennas, cheese wedges, and fruit juice. Finger snacks are best for parents. They are easy to manage while holding a toddler. Good choices are sausage rolls, savoury pastries, chips and dips, and pizza slices. For children under four, it’s best to steer clear of peanuts and popcorn. They can choke on this while running around. Anything with a stick is also a bad idea. Avoid fizzy drinks. These are often wasted and can lead to ‘hyper’ activity. Some venues provide this as part of their service, so ask when you book. If you’re making them yourself, keep them light and compact and keep most of the treats bite-size: Include the following: If you want the day to be a success, make sure you have age-appropriate games planned for the day: 