Being a pet owner is a rewarding experience, but it also involves a huge amount of responsibility. Besides feeding, grooming, and looking after your pet’s wellbeing, making sure your home stays clean and fur-free is another challenge for pet keepers’. It can be quite frustrating trying to do so, which is why we’ve compiled a list of helpful tips to help you reduce the amount of fur in your home: Grooming your pet regularly will cut down the amount of fur they shed around your home. Make sure you take your furry friend to the groomers at least once weekly, or you can also do the grooming yourself if you enjoy the quality time or just want to save some cash. Ensure you’ve purchased the correct equipment for effectively groomed pets. Slipcovers are removable covers that can be placed over couches. They’re perfect for pet owners because they help reduce the amount of fur left on your couch. They’re also quite easy to clean as you can removed them easily and pop them into the washing machine as needed. Added to that, if you have guests over, all you need to do is remove the cover and your guests can enjoy sitting on a fur-free couch. Unlike other types of cloths, microfibre cloths can easily pick up pet fur from furniture. You can remove pet fur from the surface by brushing a microfibre cloth over it and within a few minutes, you’ll have removed tons of fur. An efficient way to remove stubborn fur from your curtains, furniture or clothes is to use rubber gloves. Wear a rubber glove and rub the glove in one direction over the surface you’re trying to remove fur from. The resulting static electricity generated will cause fur to stick to the rubber glove, making it easier to clean and dispose of. There’s nothing more frustrating than having to daily clean pet fur from a carpet. You can reduce the amount of cleaning you have to do weekly by selecting carpets that match the colour of your pet’s fur. This will also make the fur balls look less unsightly. If you aren’t fond of the idea of matching your carpets with your pet’s fur, you can use throw rugs to minimise the amount of fur on your carpets. The throw rugs should be placed at each doorway to allow fur and dirt to gather on them, rather than be left to spread throughout your home.The best part is that throw rugs can be easily cleaned in the washing machine. Using a regular mop to clean ceramic tiles can actually create more of a mess as they tend to move fur around as opposed to actually lifting it from the tiles. Microfibre mops pick up fur easily, ensuring that your tiles aren’t left in a condition worse than when you started cleaning them. Dressing your pet in clothing like jumpers and t-shirts will greatly reduce the amount of fur they shed. It’s recommended that you do this after they’ve just been groomed. This will definitely minimise the amount of fur build-up around your home. Keep your home clean and fur-free by incorporating the above tips into your fur cleaning regimen.