How many South African influencers are you following? There are so many talented local Instagrammers that can brighten your feeds and open up new ways of living and self-expression. We’ve put together a list of South African influencers that will add value to your scrolling experience. The Bachelorette SA beauty is quickly winning over the country’s hearts and the men who are vying for a red rose. Follow @qinisovandamme for striking beauty and fashion shots – you’ll definitely get some inspiration and learn a pose or two for your own feed.   A post shared by Qiniso Van Damme (@qinisovandamme) Amy Keevy is a Cape Town-based artist with a feed of sunshine. Follow @amy_keevy for a dose of ochre art exploring themes of femininity, the moon and the shore. You can also become a proud owner of Amy’s creations as she sells originals and prints on amykeevy.co.za.   A post shared by Amy Keevy (@amy_keevy) As a professional photographer and filmmaker, Melissa Brown easily creates a travel-envy Instagram feed of SA, especially her hometown Cape Town. Follow @melissabrownza for travel and adventure – from horse riding in the Free State to heli flip rides in the Kruger.   A post shared by Melissa Brown (@melissabrownza) Nonqaba Nozuko Rwaxa, aka Ms Cosmo, is a 5fm radio personality and traphouse DJ. The chic, cool girlfriend whose phone you’ll hook up to the speakers at every party. Follow @mscosmosa for an inside look at the social scene in Joburg and links to new music.   A post shared by MsCosmo SA (@mscosmosa) If you want to add some more pearls of wisdom to your Instagram feed, search for Dr Jess Stanbridge; a practising holistic psychiatrist. Follow @drjess_stanbridge for mental health notes and quotes, and personal stories and lessons learned from her own journey.   A post shared by Dr. Jess Stanbridge (@drjess_stanbridge) Aqeelah Harron Ally is a proud, practising Muslim on Instagram who shares her love for modest fashion, beauty and travel on her feed, blog and YouTube channel. Follow @fashionbreed for inspiration on how to be unapologetically yourself and look good while doing it.   A post shared by Aqeelah Harron Ally ???? (@fashionbreed) A Pan-African artist and choreographer, Sne Mbatha has danced for Drake, Omarion, Kwesta and more. Follow @iam_snembatha for dancing videos you’ll want to groove with, exercise shots that will prompt you to get out and moving around, plus a whole lot of body positivity.   A post shared by SNE MBATHA S N E W H O ? (@iam_snembatha) Jenna McArthur made a name for herself as a trusted (and fashionable) content creator as the ELLE South Africa online editor, and the founder of Jenna McArthur PR. Since then Jenna has also added mom to her CV. Follow @_jennamcarthur for women and baby fashion inspo.   A post shared by Jenna McArthur (@_jennamcarthur)