There are so many benefits of drawing for children. Multiple studies show creativity and well-being are positively linked. Psychologist Bernice Castle agrees, saying that art and creativity help the development of children in various ways. “Art can be a powerful tool for children and adults alike. If children engage in hands-on art activities, they learn much better in all disciplines.” Improves fine and gross motor skills:  Art helps children apply their gross and fine motor skills to something meaningful and assists them to tap into their problem-solving skills through visual cognitive responses. It has also been proven to stimulate imagination, improve observation skills, boost self-esteem, provide a sense of accomplishment and reduce stress. Helps with communication:  Art creates opportunities for your children to communicate how they see and experience the world and allows them to give expression to their feelings about the situations they encounter in their daily lives. Keeps kids entertained:  The need to keep kids engaged and entertained leaves many parents scratching their heads. Drawing taps into your kids’ creative outlets and keeps them engaged in meaningful ways. Set up an art station: Dedicate a small section of your home to art projects. BIC has a wide range of high-quality stationery perfect for art projects with the kids. They’re made to last and are widely available at your local grocery or stationery shop. Set daily challenges: Give your kids a challenge for the day. This will help them meet daily goals and provide a sense of accomplishment at the end of the day. Keep everything: Don’t throw anything away. Display the really good artworks and keep the rest in storage. Not only are these great keepsakes, but they show kids their work is special and deserves attention. Find online resources: There are thousands of online resources, from blogs to Youtube tutorials and more. Make use of these resources to add a creative spin to things. Get involved: Whether it’s reaching out to other parents you know, searching for ideas online, or asking a teacher, use the resources you have to get involved and stay connected with your child.