Mpumalanga is a province known for its magnificent landscape and abundant wildlife. It is aptly named ‘place of the rising sun’ in Zulu due to how beautiful the escarpment looks when the sun’s rays peek out in the mornings. Mpumalanga also offers an array of activities for people to enjoy. Consider putting the following recreational activities on your travel itinerary the next time you are planning to travel there: The Kruger National Park, one of Africa’s largest game reserves, lies in Mpumalanga. It offers spectacular game viewing opportunities, with the Big 5 attracting many local and international tourists on an annual basis. It offers amazing biodiversity such as tropical forests, mountains, and even bushveld. There are many lodges for visitors to choose from which cater to different types of travellers with varying budgets. 2. Explore the ancient Sudwala Caves The Sudwala Caves are around 240 million years ago, formed from Precambrian dolomite rock which first existed 2800 million years ago when the world’s continents were still connected before the continental drift. This makes the Sudwala Caves one of the oldest known cave systems in the world.   Take a tour back in time and learn more about the evolution of the earth while admiring prehistoric rock formations in one of Mpumalanga’s most popular tourist destinations. 3. Experience breathtaking views of nature at God’s Window There’s nothing that reminds you more of the splendour of nature like standing at the top of a huge cliff that overlooks a rich ravine covered in green foliage. God’s Window will truly take your breath away and make you feel like you are indeed seeing the world through the lens of a great being. 4. Visit the Three Rondavels Mpumalanga doesn’t fall short when it comes to nature destinations. The Three Rondavels are located on the Panorama Route. They are 3 mountain tops that resemble the shape of a rondavel, hence their name. While viewing these famous mountains, you’ll also be surrounded by incredible nature views, which makes for an unforgettable experience. 5. Marvel at the Blyde River Canyon The Blyde River Canyon is yet another well-known nature destination in this province. It spans 26kms and is the world’s third largest canyon. The first two largest canyons in the world are the Grand Canyon and the Fish Canyon, but it’s worth nothing that these 2 canyons do not have vegetation like the Blyde River Canyon, which is part of what makes it a popular scenic wonder. 6. Take a refreshing dip in the Mac Mac Pools The Mac Mac Pools are a great picnic and relaxation spot. They are situated on the southside of the Mac Mac Falls a few kilometres away from Sabie. There are braai and toilet facilities available and you can take a dip in the cold waters of the Mac Mac Pools to cool off on a hot day, perfect for a family day out. 7. Taste delicious local cuisine in Dullstroom Dullstroom is the epitome of farm to table living. It is a small town that is known for its local restaurants which serves sumptuous cuisine. You won’t find any fast food or franchise restaurants in the area, except for Seattle Coffee. This town is a great escape for people looking to take a break from city life and enjoy the little pleasures that come with being in a rustic environment. If you’re planning to travel to Mpumalanga anytime soon, consider visiting any one of the seven tourist destinations listed above for a fun and memorable trip.