Since the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic, it has been reported by medical professionals and even the World Health Organization (WHO) that elderly people are at a higher risk of contracting COVID. Added to that, they also tend to have more health complications due to the fact that many have comorbidities that exacerbate the extent of the illness. Here’s how senior citizens can ensure that they reduce their chances of contracting COVID: We’ve heard the term “social distancing” many times for the past year. It’s still one of the most effective ways to prevent the spread of COVID-19, which is why it’s recommended that elderly people social distance as much as possible. This means staying away from large crowds and if you are in public, make sure you keep the recommended 2 metres distance between you and other people. Wearing two masks creates more layers of protection against aerosol droplets, enhancing your protection. Make sure the masks you wear are a comfortable and great fit. This is one of the key guidelines given by WHO and the Center for Disease Control (CDC) to aid in preventing the spread of COVID. By washing and sanitizing your hands regularly, you ensure that your hands don’t carry any pathogens that may result in illness upon infection. It’s recommended by caregivers for Senior citizens to be socially connected as it plays a huge role in their overall wellbeing. Although social distancing goes against this important guideline, senior citizens should be taught how to use technological platforms such as video calls in order to keep in contact with their loved ones. A significant aspect of remaining healthy is not putting your mental health under strain. Watching or reading consistent updates about COVID-19, or just news in general, can be detrimental to your mental wellbeing. Stress and anxiety aren’t good for physical health either as they can result in a compromised immune system, so make sure you reduce the amount of time you spend reading or watching the news. Having your essentials delivered to your doorstep can help you avoid large crowds or contact with others, thus reducing your chances of contracting COVID. Many shops have designated hours on specific days for senior citizens to ensure that they can shop freely without being inconvenienced by large crowds. You can choose to shop during this hour and you can also shop early when there are little to no people in stores. Taking a brisk walk or engaging in physical exercise can help you stay healthy. Walks are also proven to improve mental health, as is exercise. So, get your body moving and try not to stay cooped up in the house all day. Senior citizens can apply the above precautions to enhance their chances of remaining COVID-free.