Ongoing conflict between the municipality and hawkers in the CBD over permits, and the removal and confiscation of goods this week boiled over into a physical altercation that is now being investigated by the police. Hawkers have for the last couple of years bemoaned their struggle for licences and the treatment they seemingly endure from municipal officials. A 51-year-old female hawker in the CBD spent the weekend behind bars where she was detained for assault, after a physical altercation followed when officials told her she was unauthorised to sell her goods. The police confirmed the case, but hawkers who share the spot have come forward saying municipal officials who took part in the altercation, which happened during an oversight visit, are now playing the victim. The woman, who is a foreign national, explained to Polokwane Observer that she was in fact, the one who was assaulted. She detailed how three municipal officials stopped on the corner of Thabo Mbeki and Church streets last week, where she has been working as a hawker for the past five years. “When they arrived, they did not talk or engage with me. They started shouting things and pushed me around before trying to confiscate my goods. I was assaulted when a crowd of people tried to stand up for my rights as a hawker. I did not lay a hand on anyone, but I was man-handled and shoved around by officials until I fell to the ground.” She claimed that at one point, an official was pushing her down with his foot. “Next thing I knew, I was in the back of the car on the way to the police station.” The woman admitted that she does not have a permit to sell goods on the side of the street, but had tried numerous times to obtain one from the municipality. “Every time I am shown the door with the excuse that the municipality has a backlog and cannot issue permits.” She furthermore said the harassment by officials is a weekly occurrence. “Every week they come here and beat me around. I was just surprised to be arrested this time. I am a 51-year-old woman against three officials. How can I assault them? The only reason why I still go back to the street is because of my son who just completed Gr 12 with flying colours and dreams of becoming a doctor. This is the only way I can afford to take him to school. I cannot afford to sit at home because his dreams are lying in my hands.” Provincial Police Spokesperson, Brig Motlafela Mojapelo confirmed that the woman appeared in the Polokwane Magistrate’s Court on Monday, 12 April and was released on bail. Municipal Spokesperson, Thipa Selala confirmed that a case was opened by officials in the community safety department and the matter is currently under investigation by the police. Polokwane Observer spoke to other street hawkers about the matter.  Enly Mabelane has been working on the street as a hairdresser for 17 years to provide for her family. Following a recent physical altercation in which another hawker was involved, Enly says she works in fear and that licences are hard to come by from the municipality. Lockdown has hit her hard, she says, and she cannot afford to take her two-year-old son to daycare.  Washington Moyo: The reason why we work from the street is because we can’t afford to pay rent in saloons but everyday we know that these officials are going to come and harass us. They don’t ask anything they just start beating us up and we know we need to run. Justice Mlambo: I was also arrested recently, along with my customer. I tried pleading that they should let the customer go but they did not even listen to what I had to say. This has a negative effect on business because now even our customers don’t feel safe.