Summer is arguably the favourite season to take a vacation because of its warm weather which is conducive for outdoor activities. However, going on a vacation during the colder months of the year can be just as enjoyable as a summer vacation. While the majority of South Africa doesn’t experience freezing temperatures during winter there are still a number of exciting activities to experience. To get you started, here are a few top activities you should consider when travelling this winter. Although South Africa isn’t renowned for having a snowy winter, there are few parts of the country that do get some snowfall. Regions like the Drakensberg Mountains, and some parts of the Eastern Cape and the Western Cape are known for significant drops in temperature resulting in snow during the winter months. Skiing and snowboarding are fun winter activities to partake in when it’s snowing, but it’s worth noting that southern Africa only has 2 ski resorts — one in the Southern Drakensberg Mountains and another in the Maluti Mountains of Lesotho. From May to July, shoals of sardines migrate from KwaZulu-Natal’s southern coast to the Wild Coast. This attracts vast numbers of predators such as sharks, seabirds, carnivorous fish, and marine mammals. The Sardine Run is considered one of the most spectacular marine events on earth and attracts many tourists from both inside and outside South Africa. The sheer number of sardines seen during their annual migration makes them very easy to catch, with people easily scooping them up in buckets. If you enjoy learning more about nature and are interested in catching some sardines in the process, you’ll certainly marvel at the Sardine Run. Fynbos is one of South Africa’s most well renowned flower species and it plays a significant role in cementing Cape Town as one the most ecologically diverse cities in the world. This plant species blooms in winter and includes proteas, pincushions, cone bushes, and sugarbushes to name a few. All these plants in full bloom make a beautiful site to see and the best place to witness them is at Kirstenbosch Botanical Garden, where Table Mountain National Park acts as a backdrop. A winter safari is the best time to spot animals like the Big 5. This is because during winter, there is significantly less rainfall, making it the dry season in the wilderness. The result is that animals gather more frequently around watering holes to quench their thirst. Added to this, the bushveld tends to be thinner during the winter month, making it easier for visitors to spot game due to the increased difficulty they would have camouflaging. Hot springs are one of nature’s phenomena. They’re great for revitalizing the body and mind and are the perfect activity to partake in when the weather is cold. Nothing beats relaxing in a warm hot spring on a cold winter’s day. Places in South Africa that have hot springs include Bela Bela, Riemvasmaak, Eshowe, and Amanzintaba. Despite the colder days, going on a vacation in winter can be just as fun and memorable as any other time of year. Consider the above 5 activities for an enjoyable winter vacation.