Many families are taking a much-needed short break this coming week. Some of us are travelling to spend time with family or to relax at a holiday destination. While lockdown rules have eased, the threat of COVID-19 is still very much with us. Here are a few ways you can minimise the risks and keep yourself and your family safe: It’s important to consider your own safety and that of your children, but also the possible risks for any elderly or potentially vulnerable loved ones with whom you will be coming into contact. “Whenever people gather, it can create opportunities for the virus to spread and so we should limit our interactions and be meticulous about hand hygiene, social distancing and wearing masks at all times,” says Dr Jolene Pitman, a general practitioner at Medicross Bluff in Durban. Dr Pitman has these tips for safe traveling to minimise you and your family’s risk of contracting COVID-19: What to do if someone gets sick while on holiday If you or any of your family members become ill during your trip, seek medical advice early. “There appears to be a disturbing trend where patients who may have contracted COVID-19 are not seeking care early enough for doctors to test them and start treatment early if indicated, but only when their condition has deteriorated to the point where they are facing a medical emergency and need specialised care in hospital,” says Dr Pitman. Wherever you are in South Africa, the network of Medicross medical and dental centres can take care of your family’s primary healthcare needs either with an in-person or virtual consultation, either telephonically or via a secure online video link. If you have any concerns that the illness could be COVID-19-related, or if you have been in contact with someone with COVID-19, it’s important to phone ahead and bring this information to the attention of the doctor so that the necessary safeguards can be taken to prevent the spread of COVID-19 in the facility. “Recent advances towards a COVID-19 vaccine are encouraging news, but it will likely be quite some time before they are commonly available. In the meantime, it is our individual and joint responsibility to take all necessary precautions to help prevent the spread of COVID-19 within our communities,” Dr Pitman concludes.