The 11 members of the Morena Seaka View Homeowners Association who were accused of fraud for apparently illegally selling land, appeared before Magistrate MH van der Walt on Monday in the Seshego Regional Court, housed at the Polokwane High Court. The counsel for the accused, Adv Nosipho Khumalo requested for postponement on the basis that she had issues with the ownership claims made by Blue Dot, and that she would prefer to do a presentation with the National Directorate of Public Prosecution. It is alleged that the association sold erven to unsuspecting members of the public on a piece still under a land claim. Blue Dot Properties argued to be the rightful owner of the Kalkfontein portion 41 LS, also known as Mamahule or Morena Seaka View. The magistrate, on the basis of information brought before court, granted this request, saying the process should not take longer than six weeks if the letter was written by Khumalo this week. The land in question is subject to a land claim lodged in 1996, which has not yet been finalised and settled before the Land Claims Court. There are two court orders prohibiting the occupation of the land, and disputes have given rise to numerous violent protests and court cases over time. Occupants who have built or are building on the land have been refused entry to the property they believe to be theirs. “Blue Dot is the legitimate owners of Portion 41 Kalkfontein 1001 and we will be ready on 14 May to prove that before court,” Ike Kekana, the Spokesperson for the company said. Relating to this court case, the R71 next to Mamahule/Morena Seaka, was closed by protestors with burning tyres in both lanes early Monday morning. Motorists were advised to use the road from Unit C to Sebayeng and the R81 to Polokwane. The road was opened at around 09:00 following the arrival of the Public Order Police Unit, who dispersed the protestors. The 11 accused last appeared before court on 9 March, but the case was postponed as certain documents were not yet sent to the Regional Court, housed at the High Court, where the case was to be heard. The case was postponed to 14 May.