This is A Dog for Life, a 13-part South African docu-reality series sponsored by Hill’s Pet Nutrition and is now showing on Netflix. ‘A Dog for Life is a show about the extraordinary, very tangible bond between people and shelter dogs. It is impossible to determine the rescuer from the rescued,’ explains the owner of production company Grays Matter Films, Samantha Gray, who produced and co-directed A Dog for Life. Throughout the 13 episodes, presenter and show ideator Sue White will match shelter dogs with their forever homes around Cape Town. Through a quirky doggy dating process, Sue helps humans to look beyond the fluff and fall in love with the one. The dogs are a mix of scruffy, grubby, perky, goofy, beautiful, shy, boisterous, delinquent, and angelic. Despite being abandoned, with a stroke of luck they have found their way to their halfway houses at existing shelters – Fallen Angels, Animal Welfare Society of South Africa, Animal Welfare Society Stellenbosch, Honey’s Garden, Animal Anti Cruelty League (AACL), DARG, WOOF Project and Cape of Good Hope SPCA. ‘Getting involved in a show like this was a natural fit for us. Hill’s has always been committed to transforming lives, those of pets, and in turn their pet parents. Since 2002, the Hill’s Food, Shelter & Love Programme has provided shelters with the life-changing nutrition they need to help homeless pets find forever homes,’ says Carla Bath from Hill’s Pet Nutrition. So, how does the matchmaking process on A Dog for Life work? Samantha shares a brief overview without giving away too much: ‘Some families and our interactions made us laugh until we cried, and with some, we wept. We stand in authority here, knowing with absolute certainty that dogs are the greatest rescuers of all. We cannot call them ‘rescues’ – we, the humans, are the rescued. Quite frankly, the earth would be a miserable place without dogs. And if you didn’t know that already, you will after watching A Dog for Life.’ Watch the trailer below:  * Details: Visit adogforlife.co.za