Because of their small tummies and active little bodies, children must eat frequently. Healthy snacks in between meals are a great way to help your tot to meet their daily energy and nutrient needs, which is why we’ve come up with a variety of fun and creative snack ideas to include in their diet. Fruit is nature’s original fast food because it is quick, easy, and high in nutrients. Fruits are high in vitamins, minerals, antioxidants, phytonutrients, and fibre, all of which are beneficial to preventing illness and disease, as well as improving overall health. Fruit purees for babies and age-appropriate soft whole fruits for toddlers are the most popular snack choices. As part of our children’s daily snack choices, dairy products such as milk, yoghurt, and cheese pack a powerful punch. In fact, studies have shown that children who eat yoghurt maintain a healthier weight. Because of their higher energy needs, it is generally recommended that children stick to full cream dairy options. Here are some suggestions for incorporating dairy into your child’s diet as a snack: The humble egg is the most versatile food on the planet. According to an American study, including eggs in a child’s diet at a young age can help them grow faster. This is because eggs are high in high-quality protein, with 7 grams of protein per egg containing all of the essential amino acids that the body requires for good health at any age. Vitamin B12, biotin, selenium, and manganese are all found in eggs, as well as vitamin D and iodine. Good to know: In these difficult economic times, eggs are a cost-effective meal or snack option that provides excellent nutritional value. Healthy fats like avocado, olives, nuts (if your child is not allergic), and their oil contain more energy than carbohydrates and protein, helping busy little bodies meet their growing needs. Healthy fats provided by foods such as avos, olives, nuts, and nut betters help keep the immune system strong and provide essential fatty acids for healthy eyes and brain development. Good to know: Since fats are high in energy, drizzling olive oil or avocado oil over meals is a good way to help smaller babies and toddlers who need to pick up some weight.