Polokwane Observer spoke to ward councillor, Hafiz Shaikh on the progress that has been made so far and he says the reservoir itself has been completed and the construction team is busy with the construction of a new pumphouse that will be connected to he reservoir as well as the paving and driveway. Shaikh says to his understanding the reservoir comes with non-return valves that will be places in strategic areas across the supply area and will be able to automatically detect when the normal supply of water from the Potgieter reservoir is unable to reach high lying areas. “Remember there were about eight streets in Nirvana that were lying high and they struggled the most with water supply as the pressure would often not be sufficient. These valves will then be able to detect when there is not any water and the new reservoir will kick in and ensure the supply.” According to Shaikh, Nirvana has had a stable water supply for the past three weeks and it was only on Sunday, 27 June that the supply was disrupted, but it was attended to the following day. He says that the reservoir is a milestone for the people of ward 19, who would often not have a stable water supply. Municipal Spokesperson, Thipa Selala said: “The new reservoir is a holding or buffer tank for the Ivydale pump station. The reservoir will assist with sustaining the supply of water to the Ivydale plots and parts of Nirvana. As it is a known fact, the municipality has approved township developments in the Ivydale Agricultural Holdings and at the present moment, the existing pump station is not optimal with the supply of water to it coming directly from the network, owing to low pressure and intermittent water availability. We took advantage of the need to cater for Ivydale to make provision for the highest part of Nirvana as they are also affected by low pressure and no water at times. Having water available in the buffer tank, will ensure smooth running of the automised pumps (new pumps to be installed in a new pump station under construction) and their protection against pumping air, which damages the pumps through cavitation.”