In our first movie, set in a world where humans and superheroes coexist, a lone wolf cop teams up with a brilliant detective to dismantle a dark organisation trafficking superpowers. Our second choice is a powerful and thought-provoking true story that follows a young lawyer and his history-making battle for justice. Or get ready for an action-packed thriller about a family man’s life that is thrown into turmoil when a gang of bank robbers kidnap his son. Paris 2021. Superheroes are perfectly integrated into society. A mysterious drug that bestows super abilities to those who have none spread out in the city. As the number of incidents rises, Lieutenant Moreau and Schaltzmann are sent out to investigate. Along with Monte Carlo and Callista, two vigilante old-timers, they will stop at nothing to contain the spread of the narcotic. But Moreau’s past resurfaces, and the case thickens … How I Became a Superhero is now showing on Netflix.   A powerful and thought-provoking true story, Just Mercy follows young lawyer Bryan Stevenson and his history-making battle for justice. After graduating from Harvard, Bryan had his pick of lucrative jobs. Instead, he heads to Alabama to defend those wrongly condemned or who were not afforded proper representation, with the support of local advocate Eva Ansley. One of his first, and most incendiary, cases is that of Walter McMillian, who, in 1987, was sentenced to die for the notorious murder of an 18-year-old girl, despite a preponderance of evidence proving his innocence and the fact that the only testimony against him came from a criminal with a motive to lie. Catch it on Showmax.   In an attempt to reconnect with his son Danny, successful Wall Street broker Will takes his family on a vacation to the cabin where he grew up. While Will and Danny are hunting, their trip takes a deadly turn when they witness the murder of a crooked police officer as a bank robbery goes awry. When Danny is taken hostage by the criminals, Will is forced to help them evade the police chief investigating the murder and recover the stolen money in exchange for his son’s life. First Kill will show on M-Net movies 4, channel 108 on July 9 at 8pm.  