Karin Slaugher always delivers tremendously thrilling reads, and her latest, False Witness, has just been released. Leigh and her sister Callie are not bad people but one night, more than two decades ago, they did something terrible. And the result was a childhood tarnished by secrets, broken by betrayal, devastated by violence. Years later, Leigh has pushed that night from her mind and become a successful lawyer but when she is forced to take on a new client against her will, her world begins to spiral out of control. Because the client knows the truth about what happened twenty-three years ago. He knows what Leigh and Callie did. And unless they stop him, he is going to tear their lives apart. Just because you didn’t see the witness, doesn’t mean he wasn’t there! Harper Collins  There’s been lots of noise about Seven Days in June by Tia Williams, and for good reason. A cracking read for a cold night. When Shane and Eva meet at a literary event, sparks fly, raising not only their buried traumas, but also the eyebrows of the Black literati. What no one knows is that fifteen years earlier, teenage Eva and Shane spent one crazy, torrid week madly in love. While they may be pretending not to know each other, they cannot deny their chemistry or the fact that they have been secretly writing to each other in their books through the years. Over the next seven days, amidst a steamy Brooklyn summer, Eva and Shane reconnect – but Eva’s wary of the man who broke her heart and wants him out of the city so her life can return to normal. Before Shane disappears though, she needs a few questions answered. Quercus  Investigator Colt Shaw, one of Jeffery Deaver’s heros, is in San Francisco, where he is on mission – one his father began years ago. He needs to find a missing courier bag containing evidence that will bring down a corporate espionage firm, BlackBridge, responsible for hundreds of deaths. He believes the company is responsible for his father’s murder, and his brother’s disappearance. While following clues left by his father, he discovers that finding the bag is more urgent than he thought … it’s the only way to prevent the murder of an entire family – and he’s only got 48 hours. As with all Deaver’s books, The Final Twist is edge-of-your seat thrilling, with twists and turns to keep you guessing until the very end. Harper Collins All these exceptional reads available from Exclusive Books