How many times have you put off an important task or stared blankly at your computer screen for hours without achieving anything? You’re not alone. Procrastination affects us all and is especially common in times of overwhelm. But with the right tools and techniques, you can move forward. These six tips, shared by culture experts The Human Edge, are from US author and productivity expert Joseph Grenny. Practice them regularly for best results. Behavioural economists have shown that making good choices is easy if you don’t have to act on them now. As a result, Grenny suggests finding future blocks of time in your diary and committing them to focus on a specific task. “I am faithful to my calendar,” he explains. When you have long tasks to complete, particularly those that require multiple work sessions, Grenny suggests stopping at a place that makes it easier – and more pleasant – to return to later. This helps with enthusiasm as you know where you’re going when you pick the work back up again. Motivation is a finite resource, particularly with tasks that are hard to enjoy. Grenny’s advice is to design your work episodes to “maximise your satisfaction, not grind you into depletion”. He also thinks of himself in the third person, as someone he needs to carefully influence in order to be productive. Busy people don’t tend to savour the endorphins that come with having completed a task, so it’s important to stop and feel the satisfaction, says Grenny. This creates new neural connections that associate productivity with pleasure rather than resentment. Grenny loves ticking items off a list and regularly writes down five things he want to complete before a certain time. Being able to cross them off when completed gives him an extra incentive. One of the reasons people lose their enthusiasm for being productive is that it can feel like a relentless grind—there’s always more to do. Grenny’s advice: don’t burn yourself out and always allow time for renewal. For more information, visit The Human Edge.