Now that working – and schooling – at home have become the norm for so many people, it’s important to find ways of making the most effective use of the available space. “Ideally, you need to invest in whatever technology and equipment that will enable you to most comfortably and efficiently get the job done,” says Private Property Brand & Marketing Executive, Tracey Lee Miller. Unfortunately, this isn’t always feasible, but regardless of the space or location, you need to establish areas of your home where you and other family members can work. “Make sure that the workspace is quiet so that you can focus on the task at hand, and commit to working in this space every day,” says Miller. Key considerations when setting up: Designated areas The first step is to designate an area of your home which you will set aside for getting work done. This could be an empty or spare bedroom that you can convert into a home office. If you are pressed for space, you can set up a desk for your computer and office supplies in the living area or a corner of your bedroom. The main thing is to find a space that is exclusively going to be used for doing work and where you won’t be disturbed by other family members. Furniture You may need to invest in additional furniture to get the work area to function properly. Depending on the amount of space available, consider the following for each work station: • A desk. • Bookshelves. • A comfortable office chair. Because of the unusual nature of many work-at-home situations, many people are using dining room tables, TV trays, folding tables, and kitchen counters instead of conventional desks. The problem with this is that incorrect sitting can easily cause posture problems, which can quite quickly lead to all sorts of health issues. You don’t necessarily need top-of-the-range furniture– there are many affordable desks on the market that are relatively simple to set up in your home. However, keep in mind that you will be working in this space every day, so it’s important to buy comfortable and functional furniture that works for you. Equipment Setting up a home office or workspace may require some new technology to do your job effectively which includes having a desktop computer, a laptop, or a tablet. Depending on the nature of your work, you may also need new hardware or software or an upgrade to your cellphone contract. A high-performance router will help you avoid many technology problems. Since working from home often requires extensive downloads and online meetings, you need a router that will meet these demands and avoid annoying disruptions. “Once you have set up your space to function effectively, you will hopefully be more productive with no niggling backaches,” concludes Miller.