Here’s a handful of ideas to make use of your newfound freedom. Travel Not pressurised for time, you can visit places out of season and, if you’re still fit and strong, conquer some of the bucket list adventures you’ve dreamed of. If finances are a concern, look for pensioner travel specials close to home, and explore the beautiful sights that your own community and country have to offer. Go back to school Now is the time to accomplish that degree you’ve always wanted to pursue, be it History, Music, Art, Archaeology… You can also attend courses to update your computer skills and learn almost anything online. Experts say that keeping your brain stimulated and challenged will help to delay Alzheimer’s disease and other forms of cognitive decline. Get a hobby Retirement is a great time to take up a new hobby or activity. If you’re not very active, try swimming, golf, cycling or yoga. Or learn to play the guitar, paint or do woodwork – anything that keeps you active is good for mental and physical health. Volunteer Whether at the library, an animal shelter, a seniors’ home, hospice, food and feeding programmes or even at your church, volunteering is a great way to keep busy and meet new people. Garden If you don’t have your own garden area, look out for community plots or food projects where you can assist, or join a gardening club to expand your knowledge. Gardening is a good way to keep moving and it’s rewarding to see the fruits of your labour flourish. Start a small business Become a handy person, sell crafts online, tutor or even consult to keep busy and generate extra income. Be a mentor If you have valuable skills and still like working in your field without all the pressure, become a mentor. Working with young people at the beginning of their careers is also a great way of giving back. Join a gym Many gyms have special programmes for seniors. Alternatively, join a walking club or start your own. Walking is soft on the joints, safe to do in numbers and is a great way to socialize and get out of the house.