Key features of the new Eclipse Cross range include a striking new exterior design, an extensive list of comfort features, improved practicality, proven performance, impressive safety credentials, enhanced technology and connectivity, and greater value for money. With an increased length of 140mm, the Eclipse Cross has evolved from being muscularly agile to sleekly athletic. In addition, Mitsubishi’s “dynamic shield” concept gives it an expressive dynamic front face, while new details such as twin oval headlamps contribute to a decidedly high-tech image.  The rear has evolved from the previous shape and the split rear tailgate window has been replaced by a sharply sculpted hexagonal design with a single piece of glass. The rear boot end has also undergone a styling change, boasting a sportier look. The rear lamps now have a distinctive three-dimensional Y-shaped design, and extend upward and inward elegantly to follow the shape of the outside of the tailgate glass. Additional exterior features include, among others: electrically adjustable foldaway mirrors with indicator light, daytime running lights, 18-inch alloy wheels and roof rails. “Spaciousness is one of the greatest strengths of the new Eclipse Cross. Finding a comfortable driving position is easy thanks to electric seat adjustment, now standard for both the driver and passenger seats, while maintaining plenty of head and leg room for all occupants,” said Campbell.  Other interior highlights are Smartphone-Link Display Audio featuring Android Auto and Apple Car Play mirroring, and more. Proven performance The new Eclipse Cross will be offered in two derivatives. Both are front-wheel drive and feature a continuously variable transmission (CVT).
There are two engine options, the first being Mitsubishi’s latest 1.5-litre four-cylinder turbo charged petrol engine. It delivers impressive performance of 110kW and 250Nm and is linked to a eight-step automatic Invecs-III CVT gearbox. The second engine option is the 2.0-litre Mivec DOHC 16-valve four-cylinder engine, 110kW and 198Nm linked to a six-step Invecs-III CVT. Active and passive safety features included are seven airbags, ABS with brake assist, EBD, hill start assist, active stability and traction control, and more.  Pricing starts at R459 995 for the 2.0 GLS derivative and R499 995 for the 1.5t GLS offering. Enhancing the value proposition is a three-year/100 000km warranty, a five-year/90 000km service plan and five-year/unlimited mileage roadside assistance. Service intervals are set at 15 000km. Source: QuickPic