This workout uses your bodyweight to build strength. The only equipment you need is comfy clothes and a chair… Sit on the edge of a chair with your legs bent and feet planted firmly on the floor. Using the armrests for support, lean back and slowly pull your legs in towards your chest. Stretch your legs out straight in front of you into the air, and then return to the crunch-like position. Repeat 15 times. Muscle groups exercised: Abdominal muscles, obliques and lower back muscles. This exercise is usually done on the floor, but the chair allows you to exercise your hip muscles at the same time as your core. Position yourself on the edge of the seat, then lift and bend your legs, raising your knees as high as possible while keeping your spine straight. Slowly twist your legs to the left, hold it. And then twist your legs to the right and hold it. Repeat 15 times on each side – this number can increase as you get stronger. Muscle groups exercised: Hip flexors, abdominal muscles and obliques. Start by sitting on the edge of your seat, knees bent, heels flat on the floor. Place your hands alongside your hips and grab hold of the seat. Slowly move your body off the chair and lower your hips down towards the ground, keeping your back straight as you do so. Lift yourself back up and repeat 15 times. Muscle group exercised: Triceps. Inclined plank If a basic plank on the ground feels too difficult, try inclined planking. Stand facing the chair and lean forward to position your forearms flat on the seat. Place your legs straight behind you and use your toes to hold you in position. Keep your body in line and hold for 30 seconds. Muscle groups exercised: Abdominal muscles, obliques and shoulders. This is by far the best way to get the correct form for your squat! Stand with a chair positioned behind you and your feet hip distance apart. Keep your back straight and slowly lower your bum towards the chair – but don’t touch it. Hold fora few seconds and then return to your starting position. Repeat 15 times. Muscle groups exercised: Hip flexors, glutes, hamstrings, calves, lower back and quadriceps. Do these exercises daily for a week and notice the difference! * Supplied by Herbalife Nutrition; www.herbalife.co.za