Be aware of electrical sources Heaters and electric blankets are a main contributor to home fires. Always operate them safely and exercise caution with extension cords as well. Don’t overload them with multiple appliances as this can cause the wires to overheat and plastic insulation to catch fire. Do an earth leakage test Test the earth leakage on the distribution board (DB) at least once a month by pressing the ‘TEST’ button. This is a simple preventative measure as the earth leakage is designed to trip the electrical supply and de-energise the circuit when there is a short. Protect your circuit breakers Every DB in the home should include suitably rated circuit breakers to protect electrical circuits from damage in the event of an overload. You can protect their function by making sure you don’t place too much demand on single plug points. Know how to use a fire extinguisher Every home should have a fire extinguisher and every family member should know how to use it. The acronym PASS stands for ‘Pull’ the fire pin, then ‘Aim’ at the bottom of the fire to extinguish the burning product, ‘Squeeze’ the extinguisher and ‘Sweep’ to cover all sides. A water-mist fire extinguisher is best. It can put out all types of fires (plastic, metal, wood, etc) and cool the ignition points and surfaces around the affected areas. Unlike CO2 extinguishers or dry chemical powder (DCP) fire extinguishers, it’s not harmful to people, pets or the environment either and doesn’t limit one’s vision in a confined space. Remember that all fire extinguishers should be serviced regularly by professionals. Install a fire detector This is essential to allow your family enough time to evacuate the home and can be linked to a burglar alarm, which is especially helpful if the fire occurs at night when everyone is asleep and in danger of being overcome by smoke and toxic gases. Fire-safety checks A fire-safety check by registered experts will eliminate or reduce the risk of fire breaking out in your home and keep you safe. We’re all at risk, after all. * Information supplied by ASP Fire; for more information visit www.aspfire.co.za.