The tiny house movement is an international movement based on the premise of minimalistic living and simplicity. Gone are the days of aspiring to live in a large home that’s expensive to maintain and impacts the environment negatively. Tiny houses are usually constructed from shipping containers that have been converted into living spaces. Considering the benefits associated with living in a tiny house, it’s unsurprising that this movement is gaining momentum even in South Africa. Here’s what you need to know about the benefits of living in a tiny house: 1.Tiny homes are eco-friendly Unlike traditional homes, building a tiny home is way less invasive to the surrounding environment. Added to that, tiny homes are usually made from upcycled materials, meaning fewer materials end up in landfills. It’s also quite easy to connect your tiny home to a rainwater harvesting system, a solar power system, and even grow your own vegetable garden using homemade compost for sustainable living. 2.It’s the perfect option for those looking to live off-grid Off-the-grid living refers to people or communities who don’t rely on government utilities like electricity, water, and sanitation. Instead, they provide these utilities for themselves independently and at a significantly lower cost. Living in a tiny home makes off-grid living easier, particularly because these homes use significantly fewer utilities than traditional ones. 3.It can be a cost-effective option for those looking to own property Getting on the property ladder can be quite challenging, especially when one takes into consideration the current unfavorable economic climate. With the rising costs of living, adding an extra expense such as a mortgage may not be viable for some people. Tiny homes are a cost-effective option for people who are looking to own property without taking on a huge expense. A second-hand shipping container costs approximately R20 000 whereas a brand-new shipping container can cost between R70 000 to R80 000. This may seem like a lot of money, but taking into account that the average first-time homebuyer’s mortgage in South Africa is R982 000, it’s much cheaper than purchasing a traditional home. 4.Living in a tiny house can help you live life more meaningfully Since tiny houses are significantly smaller than traditional homes, they require a minimalist lifestyle. This means you won’t have space to hoard items that you don’t need which will help you take stock and examine what items truly matter to you. 5.Each space in a tiny house is optimised for daily living The space in a tiny house is quite small, which means every centimetre of space has to be built and used intentionally. Each space in a tiny home is optimised to ensure that it works to the best of its ability. 6.You’ll spend less money on utilities and maintaining your property in a tiny home Saving money is a great motivation for many who wish to downsize their lifestyles. Small homes require less power which means you’ll spend significantly less on your electricity bill. You’re also likely to use less water in a tiny home, which contributes to the environmentally friendly appeal of tiny homes. 7.They’re easier to clean, which saves time (and money!) Cleaning a tiny home and keeping it tidy is fairly easy due to the size. Added to this, you’ll use fewer resources for cleaning as you’ll need fewer cleaning supplies, which is a great way to save money in the long run. 8.Some tiny homes are portable, which is great for people with wanderlust If you’re a nomad, living in a portable tiny home may just be the best housing arrangement for you. They’re easy to move around should you ever decide that you need a change of scenery, which is a flexibility that isn’t offered by the permanence of traditional structures. Tiny homes offer a myriad of benefits such as energy efficiency, environmental friendliness, and affordability, all of which are not offered by traditional homes. It’s worthwhile considering living in a tiny home if you’d like to reap all the benefits listed above.