Cape Union Mart is on a mission to showcase the beauty of South Africa through a lens and nurture young talent in the country. The brand’s Adventure Film Challenge (AFC) is back providing up-and-coming and experienced filmmakers with a platform to show off their best work, showcase their talents and get industry recognition to boot. So …. aspiring and professional adventure filmmakers, take note. Grab your cameras and celebrate our beautiful country and the spirit of our thriving outdoor culture. Create something visually stunning that captures your most epic adventure outdoors and be recognised on the world stage – the international BANFF Centre Mountain Film Festival. All film submissions will be judged by a panel of external and esteemed judges, all of whom are involved in the outdoor film scene in South Africa, including Jacques Crafford, landscape and travel photographer, and last year’s AFC ‘Professional’ winner. Joining Crafford on the judging panel is Ofentse Mwase, award-winning cinematographer and business owner, and Faine Loubser, who worked on the Oscar-winning Netflix original My Octopus Teacher as the official GoPro operator. Submissions will be judged on factors like the storyline, creativity, originality, visual composition, and technical execution, along with editing, sound, music, and overall impression. The BANFF Centre Mountain Film Festival is one of the largest mountain festivals in the world. Taking place annually, the festival draws some of the world’s best filmmakers and accomplished outdoor heroes to celebrate adventure, the environment, mountain culture, and the outdoors through film. In addition to the opportunity to be featured in the BANFF Centre Mountain Film Festival screened in South Africa, ‘Professional’ entrants will be competing for a cash prize of R10 000 and R5 000 worth of in-store gear, while ‘Aspiring’ filmmakers are vying for R5 000 worth of Cape Union Mart gear. Films must be no longer than five minutes (300 seconds), including titles and credits. To be suitable for cinemas, all videos should also be shot at HDTV resolution (1920 x 1080) at 25 or 50 fps. To enter, simply submit your final short film here by Sunday, August 8 at 12 noon. Watch what it is all about here:  * Details: www.capeunionmart.co.za