With snowfall predicted over the next few days, Gumtree has compiled a list of the best spots to catch the snow this weekend. There are a couple of great spots to stay where you can experience the best of the snow. So if you’re wanting to hop into the car for a night away, or looking to make a trip of it, make the most of the cold weather and head to one of these great spots now. “Many of the cutest, quirkiest destinations our country has to offer don’t list on the big accommodation platforms, and they’re often best-kept secrets that are shared by word of mouth between friends who travel the country’s most interesting nooks and crannies,” says Estelle Nagel, brand marketing manager at Gumtree South Africa. “With snowfall predictions this weekend, it’s a great time to visit some delightful spots across the country that are in high snowfall areas”.  On your way to the Western Cape to see the snow? Wykeham Lodge is a wonderful spot in Worcester, expecting around 10+cm of snow.  Wykeham Lodge welcomes you to stay over in a traditional thatched, 1835 home with lots of charm and warmth of bygone years. Situated in the beautiful Breede River Valley surrounded by mountains, it’s the perfect spot to experience the snow this weekend.  From R670 per night.  Make snow angels under the snow-capped mountains? Southern Cross Cottage offers the best opportunity to experience the delight of a quaint town mixed with great outdoor activities.  Southern Cross self-catering cottage, situated in the heart of the quaint village of Hogsback and within walking distance from the waterfalls, this is the perfect spot for the outdoorsy type. Get your hiking books on and go find the snow!  This little gem is available for R1000 per night and well worth it.  Make this weekend one for the books. Snow, luxury, fires and ultimate relaxation? You need to visit Riverstone Country House for a slice of heaven.  With fine finishes and great decor, located in a small town named Wolseley, 90mins from CT, it’s a peaceful getaway and perfect spot to experience the snow. This luxurious self-catering house can accommodate up to 9 guests in 4 bedrooms and features an open plan kitchen with a breakfast bar, a dining area and a large lounge leading onto an undercover patio with outdoor furniture and a braai area.  The full house is R4050 per night.  Situated close to the treasure of a town Cradock, Lowlands Country House is nestled on a working farm and offers Karoo farm-style hospitality. Accommodation comprises two houses; one on a self-catering basis and the other offers meals on request.  Once you have had your snow ball fights, other activities available include river rafting, canoeing, bird watching, hiking, mountain climbing, general farm activities, and visits to nearby Cradock, Middleburg, Graaff Reinet, Nieu Bethesda, and the Mountain Zebra Park.  This little piece of paradise is R1,900 per night.  Undoubtedly one of Cradock’s most gracious homesteads, you couldn’t ask for a better spot to escape for the weekend. The Oude Pastorie Gastehuis offers old-world charm and full comfort.  The time machine must have dialled back a few decades and came to rest at this peaceful place.  The art pieces, antiques, brass beds, wooden floors with Persian carpets all add to the comfort of an unique stay. From R950 per night, add this one to your list. Remember that while you’re on holiday and chasing the snow, COVID-19 isn’t! Make sure to socially distance, avoid crowds, wear a mask, and sanitise as much as possible.