What’s more, with numerous variables like the terrain, tyre size, vehicle mass (including payload) and tyre construction (sidewall thickness) it’s difficult to know what pressure is right for the track ahead. Then, one must also consider pressure fluctuations caused by heat, and rising surface temperatures. In the end, the art of tyre deflation is best mastered through a process of trial and error – one determined by personal preference, vehicle setup, and tyre brand. However, to help in this process, here are a few tyre deflation tips to consider… Small changes, big results
Never underestimate the impact of tyre-pressure changes, even if it’s small. For example, what may not be possible at 1.0 bar, could be a breeze at 0.8 bar. Avoid sharp turns
Never perform a sharp turn if your tyres are deflated below 1.2 bar – doing so will place pressure on the tyre’s sidewall and may cause it to come off the rim. Front and rear
Your 4×4’s rear tyres can be deflated slightly more than the front tyres. This is because the rear tyres are not subjected to turns and sidewall load, however, keep your payload in mind. In most cases, you can deflate your 4×4’s rear tyres slightly more than the front. Carry essential gear
Always travel with an accurate tyre-pressure gauge, a heavy-duty compressor, and a puncture repair kit in your 4×4. Look after these items because most gauges (even the digital kind) will be hopelessly inaccurate if you drop them. Speed kills deflated tyres
No matter what the terrain type, never drive a deflated tyre at speed, doing so will cause heat build-up, irreparable damage, and ultimate tyre failure. If you’ve reached a stretch that allows faster travel, get out and inflate tyres accordingly to prevent damage to an expensive off-road tyre. Gravel travel
A small decrease in tyre pressure will dramatically improve your vehicle’s gravel-driving performance and road comfort – especially over corrugations. Over the top
Drive over rocks rather than trying to squeeze around them. The tread is the strongest part of a tyre, and it can also be repaired when damaged. In contrast, the sidewall is a tyre’s weakest and most vulnerable area, and it can’t be repaired. Approximate deflation guide
Bitumen: 100% (Follow manufacturer’s recommendation)
Gravel: 10 – 15%
Corrugated dirt tracks: 10 – 15%
Sharp rocks: 10 – 15%
Smooth rocks: 20 – 50%
Mud: 25%
Sand: 50 – 60%