Gareth listens to podcasts all the time, and it is safe to say he falls into the ‘super listener’ category (someone who listens to an average of five hours or more podcasts each week). Some of his favourite podcasts include celebrity names like Bill Maher (Real Time with Bill Maher) and Joe Rogan (The Joe Rogan Experience), but he also tunes into hidden gems like Daily Wire’s Matt Walsh (The Matt Walsh Show) and a New Zealand University’s series on the periodic table elements. CliffCentral.com produces a solid lineup of weekly podcasts, but the latest addition to the podcast menu is a new show called Collectomaina, sponsored by The South African Gold Coin Exchange and The Scoin Shop. This is a weekly feature where Gareth chats to compulsive collectors. ‘I’m a compulsive collector. I collect coins, swords, books, chemicals, tequilas, historical objects, colognes, furniture, pictures, flags, sneakers and many other things – and all of them obsessively. Collectomania allows me to talk to people who spend a great expense of time and money, curate the things they care about – for intrinsic, curious or inexplicable means.’ With nine episodes in the bag, all available on CliffCentral.com, Gareth has spoken to collectors who have dedicated themselves to watches, creepy crawlies, hats, tequila and action figures. Every show is different, and each guest adds to the timeless passion of collecting. ‘Collectors are, by definition, people who are higher up on Maslow’s hierarchy. They are the ones who make it possible for the people who come after them to understand history, culture, the totality of human knowledge and wealth. The greatest collectors invariably become the custodians of humanity’s story. Without librarians, art aficionados, museum curators and eccentrics, history may as well be made up. The same can be said for podcasts, as this practical, easy-to-use technology documents our world for future generations. The question is, are podcast hosts and listeners also higher up on Maslow’s hierarchy …?