The Active is fitted with a 1.9L diesel engine with either an automatic or manual gearbox. The Dynamic and Individual models will be fitted with a new 3.0L six-speed automatic. The Individual model is available with the 4×4 drivetrain, whereas all other models are available in the 4×2 drivetrain. The exterior upholds Mazda’s Kodo design philosophy and, says Mazda, “expresses power, toughness and utilitarian functionality.” The Active derivative is fitted with 17-inch wheels while the Dynamic and Individual models will be fitted with 18-inch wheels. The interior is human-centric with an expansive centre console, and rear passengers have their own USB charging port and grab handles. Rear door design is wide and will make entry and exit much easier.  The infotainment system comes with a seven- or nine-inch display screen that puts it all at your fingertips. Intuitive smartphone connectivity, like Android Auto and Apple CarPlay, keeps you connected to a world of functionality and entertainment. Connectivity information is also delivered to the instrument panel, helping you to keep your attention on the road. The the six-speaker surround sound system on the Active model and eight-speakers on the Dynamic and Individual models delivers powerful, crystal clear audio for you to enjoy. Safety features include auto door lock, Reverse Camera, Smart Advanced Keyless Entry, Isofix and Driver, Passenger, Knee (driver), curtain and side airbags, ABS with Electronic Brake force Distribution (EBD) as well as Dynamic Stability Control (DSC), which includes the following functions: Traction Control System (TCS), Hill Launch Assist (HLA), Hill Descent Control (HDC), Roll Over Mitigation (ROM) as well as Trailer Sway Mitigation (TSM), also standard from the entry level BT-50. The new BT-50 also boasts a 5 Star ANCAP Safety rating. Power and performance: The 1.9-litre engine produces 110kW and 350Nm while the 3.0-Litre will deliver 140kW and 450Nm. The all-new Mazda BT-50 comes standard with a three-year Unlimited Kilometer Mazda Service Plan, three-year Unlimited Kilometer Mazda Warranty and a three-year unlimited roadside assistance. Source: QuickPic