First on our list is a romantic drama about a teen with cystic fibrosis who shakes up her daily routine and challenges hospital protocol when she falls for a fellow patient. Then get ready for an action crime drama that follows a deadly assassin who works for a black ops organisation specialising in high-profile hits… but then a job goes dangerously wrong. Or watch a game of cat and mouse in a slasher comedy about a girl who swaps bodies with a serial killer, and has less than 24 hours to change back. Seventeen-year-old Stella spends most of her time in the hospital as a cystic fibrosis patient. Her life is full of routines, boundaries and self-control — all of which get put to the test when she meets Will, an impossibly charming teen who has the same illness. There’s an instant flirtation, though restrictions dictate that they must maintain a safe distance between them. As their connection intensifies, so does the temptation to throw the rules out the window and embrace that attraction. Five Feet Apart is now showing on Netflix.   Ava is a deadly mercenary who works for a black ops organization and specializes in high profile hits. When a conspicuous job goes haywire, Ava’s career and life are put into jeopardy. Ava is ordered to take a hiatus until the heat blows over and returns to her hometown of Boston in the attempts to mend relationships with her mother and sister; but years of estrangement have created resentment. As she unpacks the questionable morality of her life choices, Ava finds herself rushing to save her family and herself from inner demons and very real threats. Watch Ava now on Showmax.   Seventeen-year-old Millie Kessler spends her days trying to survive high school and the cruel actions of the popular crowd. But when she becomes the latest target of the Butcher, the town’s infamous serial killer, her senior year becomes the least of her worries. When the Butcher’s mystical dagger causes him and Millie to magically switch bodies, the frightened teen learns she has just 24 hours to get her identity back before she looks like a middle-aged maniac forever. Watch Freaky on Sunday, July 25 on M-Net, channel 101 at 9:05pm. 