Its driver assistance programme, ADAS, puts it at the forefront in terms of both active and passive safety features. Kia’s E-Handling system ensures agility and stability under all driving conditions thanks to a new-generation Electric Control Suspension (ESC). “Our new Sportage is a true inspiration for the SUV category in every sense,” says Artur Martins, senior Vice-President and head of Global Brand and Customer Experience Division at Kia Corporation.  “Be it the forward-thinking design, stellar interior, next-generation tech, efficient and responsive powertrains, the highest levels in safety systems or the very latest engineering breakthroughs that guarantee a responsive and optimal drive – the all-new Sportage is the ultimate urban SUV.” Kia based its new design philosophy on: Joy for Reason, Power to Progress, Technology for Life, Tension for Serenity and Bold for Nature. Depending on spec and model, the new Sportage rides on 17-inch, 18-inch or range-topping 19-inch wheels. Fully immersive, in-car surround sound is delivered to the occupants of the all-new Sportage via an industry-leading speaker Harman Kardon premium sound system. From launch, a high-tech 1.6-litre TGDI powertrain will be offered in the all-new Sportage line-up, generating 132kW and 265Nm of torque. There is also a 2.0-liter diesel engine developing 137kW and 416Nm. The 1.6-liter TGDI engine is mated to a 7-speed dual-clutch automatic transmission (7DCT), while a 6-speed manual transmission is also available. The new R2.0-liter diesel engine comes with an extensively re-engineered 8-speed automatic transmission.  The Sportage offers three driving modes: Terrain Mode which automatically adjusts the Sportage’s settings to recognise snow, mud and sand surfaces, and Drive Mode which offers Comfort, Eco, Sport or Smart sub-settings. An electronic 4WD system makes sure power is optimally distributed between the front and rear wheels depending on road conditions and driving situations, not only further enhancing driving performance but also boosting safety. The new Sportage also offers Forward Collision-Avoidance Assist (FCA), Highway Driving Assist (HDA), Navigation-based Smart Cruise Control (NSCC), Blind-Spot Collision-Avoidance Assist (BCA), Blind-Spot View Monitor (BVM) and Remote parking Assist (RSPA). More info will be released closer to the launch date. Source: MotorPress