Serves 6 You’ll need: spaghetti of your choice, or zucchini / spinach spaghetti or a whole wheat tagliatelle; fresh basil, for garnish; nutritional yeast/ grated parmesan cheese, for topping (optional) For the sauce: 2 tsp B-well Canola and Olive Oil Blend; 8 tomatoes, blanched or 2 x cans of chopped tomatoes; 2 medium onions, finely diced; 4 garlic cloves, chopped; 1 Tbsp tomato paste; 5 curry leaves; ½ tsp yellow asafoetida/ Hing powder (or ½ tsp garlic powder and ½ tsp onion powder); 1 tsp dried basil; 1 tsp dried oregano; 2 Tbsp curry powder; 1 tsp salt; ½ tsp ground black pepper; 1 tsp sugar; 1 cup coconut cream For the Kofta/ meatballs: 2 cups cauliflower, grated; 1 cup cabbage, grated; 1 ½ cups chickpea flour; ½ tsp yellow asafoetida/ Hing powder (or ½ tsp garlic powder and ½ tsp onion powder); 1 tsp ground cumin; 1 ½ tsp salt; 1 tsp garam masala; ½ tsp cayenne pepper How to: For the kofta’s/ meatballs: Combine all the kofta/ meatball ingredients in a bowl and stir until well mixed. Roll the mixture into ± 20 balls. Bake the balls for 20-30 min at 180˚C, flipping over every 10 min. Now make the pasta sauce. Cook the spaghetti of choice as per pack instructions. For the sauce: Heat the B-well Canola and Olive Oil Blend in a saucepan over medium heat. Once hot, add the onions and braise until soft and brown. Add the garlic, curry leaves, oregano and sauté for a min or until fragrance is released.  Sprinkle in the yellow asafoetida (or garlic and onion powder option) and fry momentarily. Stir in the chopped tomato, tomato paste and dried basil. Increase the heat, bring to a boil and then reduce heat and simmer for 10 min to reduce. Use the back of the spoon to squash any big lumps of tomato to reduce. Add the salt, pepper, curry powder and sugar, mix well. Add the coconut cream and stir. Once the balls are done, allow draining excess oil on a paper towel. Once drained, add to sauce and allow to soak up the flavours for at least 10 min. Then stir in the spaghetti or serve on top, garnish with some fresh basil leaves and a sprinkle of parmesan/ nutritional yeast and enjoy! This is just one of the many delicious recipes that you can find in the B-well Anti-Inflammatory Cookbook.  In this cookbook, B-well highlight some of the best foods favoured for their anti-inflammatory action, including what foods to avoid. Explore an array of flavourful, tasty and nutritious meals that encourage a style of eating and not a specific regiment. A balanced, anti-inflammatory diet boost your intake of whole, anti-inflammatory, antioxidant-rich foods and promotes optimal function of the whole body. Download your free copy here. Details: Visit www.bwellfoods.co.za or follow @bwellfoods on Facebook and Instagram.