One of the many decisions that come with retirement is where to live in your old age. If your current home isn’t suitable long term, lifestyle complexes or retirement villages, sectional title properties and old age homes may all be options. But choosing the right one requires careful consideration of many factors, including your health, finances and companionship needs going forward. Retirement property developer Gus van der Spek of Manor Life has this advice: Look at retirement estates offering “life rights – a financing option that allows you to live in the estate for the rest of your life. With no bond, insurance, special levies, taxes, or maintenance costs to pay, it’s potentially more affordable than home ownership and may allow you to live a more comfortable retirement. Senior living doesn’t have to mean an ‘old age home’. Many retirement neighbourhoods use technology and expert service providers to ensure a wealth of independent options for living, eating, exercise and entertainment. COVID-19 highlighted the isolation that many elderly people face. Living in a retirement community can help residents create relationships with peers, carers, and service providers, and feel less alone. The recent fires in Cape Town highlighted the importance of disaster protection. Make sure you choose a living option that has taken measures to prevent threats and protect their residents. Proper insurance is vital too. Enjoying leisure activities with friends, such as bridge, or physical activities like yoga, are some of the most important things you can do for your health as you age (and having them on hand makes them easier to do). Many of today’s senior living communities don’t only offer a one-size-fits-all experience. Residents can often choose the type of home and the exact level of service and care they need. Many retirement communities allow pets and some will even care for your animals when you’re unable to. Clarify what medical care is on hand and confirm the community’s procedures in the event of an emergency, as well as their disaster preparedness, and which hospitals will be used for admission if necessary. Decide what kind of lifestyle you want to have and choose a facility that supports it. Amenities like gyms or swimming pools, restaurants, libraries and hair salons can help a person maintain their preferred routines, or even pursue a healthier lifestyle. For more information on Manor Life, visit Wytham Estate