This newest iteration of Corolla will proudly share showroom space with its Quest, hatch and latest-generation sedan siblings. In just 99 days, one of South Africa’s most beloved nameplates will spawn an all-new model – the much-anticipated, locally-built Toyota Corolla Cross. Corolla Cross concept The Corolla Cross will slot in above the C-HR and below the RAV4 models, both in terms of size and powertrain configuration.  Toyota New Global Architecture (TNGA) The benefits of the TNGA platform have already been showcased in the Prius, C-HR and E210 Corolla (sedan and hatch) models. TNGA provides excellent ride quality, without compromising agility and driver feedback – resulting in a car that “just feels right”. Occupants are also rewarded with a spacious cabin that offers superb visibility with a stylish, yet highly-ergonomic interior design. Another hallmark of the TNGA platform is the reduction of NVH-levels (Noise Vibration Harshness), thereby offering driver and passengers a quiet, comfortable and smooth ride. Buyers of the Corolla Cross will also be able to customise their vehicle with an assortment of exterior accessory packages, catering to everything from rugged, adventure-themed variants to sporty urban enhancements.  50 Million Corolla’s sold The introduction of a Corolla SUV fittingly coincides with a remarkable landmark in the model’s history. The humble Corolla nameplate is set to achieve 50 million global sales in 2021 – firmly cementing it as the world’s bestselling car. The 10-million mark was eclipsed in 1983 with the model doubling sales to 20 million by 1994. Thirty million was achieved by 2005 with the magical 40-million milestone reached in 2012. Corolla is sold in over 150 countries and remains the top-selling model in many markets across the world. Therefore, a special congratulatory message must go out to Corolla for providing fun, affordable and dependable mobility to millions of global citizens.  NB: International images shown – local specifications and visuals may differ. Source: MotorPress