Serves: 4-6 You’ll need: 3 Tbsp B-well Extra Virgin Olive Oil; 6 large red tomatoes/ 600g chopped rosa tomatoes/ 1 ½ cans chopped tomatoes; 1 large red onion, chopped; 1 large red pepper, seeded and finely chopped; 1 large orange pepper, seeded and chopped; 1 red chilli, chopped and deseeded; 1 tsp coriander seeds; 1 cup veg stock; 3 garlic cloves, whole and unpeeled; 1 tsp black/ mixed peppercorns; handful of fresh basil leaves; half a tin of coconut milk, optional; salt, to taste; habanero/ tabasco/ sweet chilli pepper sauce to spice things up. How to: Heat the oven to 180˚C. In an oven dish, add all the chopped orange peppers, tomatoes, onions and the cloves of garlic, still in their jackets, drizzle with B-well Extra Virgin Olive Oil and roast for 40 min, or until cooked through and slightly charred. In a large saucepan on medium heat, add 2 Tbsp of B-well Extra Virgin Olive Oil and add the coriander seeds. Remove the vegetables from the oven and add to the pan, squeezing the soft garlic from its jacket into the pan (remove casing) and adding the rest of the ingredients plus the red chilli and black peppercorns. Add the veggie stock and basil and blend using a hand-blender (you will have to blend ingredients in sections if using a normal blender and then add the mixture back to the saucepan). Once blended, stir in the optional coconut milk, add salt to taste and allow to come to a boil before removing from the heat to serve. Once done, top with the fresh chopped red peppers, packed with Vit C when kept raw. Serve Hot! Enjoy the pleasant flavours, textures and aromas – add your pepper sauce to your heat preference and with a side of seed crackers. This is just one of the many delicious recipes that you can find in the B-well Anti-Inflammatory Cookbook.  In this cookbook, B-well highlight some of the best foods favoured for their anti-inflammatory action, including what foods to avoid. Explore an array of flavourful, tasty and nutritious meals that encourage a style of eating and not a specific regiment. A balanced, anti-inflammatory diet boost your intake of whole, anti-inflammatory, antioxidant-rich foods and promotes optimal function of the whole body. Download your free copy here. * Details: Visit www.bwellfoods.co.za or follow @bwellfoods on Facebook and Instagram.