Encapsulating the looks and the speed of the original Cobra, unveiled nearly 60 years ago, the new car will combine the appeal of the brand’s heritage with a specifically designed, fully electric powertrain and thoroughly modern ride and handling. The inception point for a series of new cars, which includes the AC Cobra Series 4 electric announced in June, the launch of the Series 1 electric marks a milestone for a company whose heritage stretches back 120 years.  Working with Derby-based technical partner, Falcon Electric, the Norfolk-based company is ensuring that the implementation of EV technology into the famous car is in keeping with the personality and performance that has made AC’s original design one of the most imitated manufacturers of all time. Alan Lubinsky, the chief executive of AC Cars for more than two decades, said, “I’m so proud of the team behind this project and the hours that have been invested in making this car so special. This is British engineering and technology at its finest, upholding AC Cars’ approach to producing only the finest hand-built sports cars.” Although its production has been delayed by supply chain issues, the engineering team behind the car have been able to revisit some of its core principles. As a result, it has selected enhanced and higher performing parts, which mean the car will exceed original estimates. Weight, acceleration and handing have all been honed to ensure the car is truly worthy of carrying the Cobra name.  Dawn of the new Cobras Working with the svelte AC Ace, the AC Cobra changed sports cars forever in 1962 by fitting Ford’s small-block V8 into the two-seater and creating an automotive titan. The shift from petrol engines to electric motors almost 60 years later will be just as significant as the original epiphany, allowing the famous British name to sell highly desirable high-performance cars that are fit for the future. With a 0-100km/h time of around four seconds, the Series 1 electric packs a punch akin to the early cars, but with the near-instant torque EVs are known for. However, the near 150 zero-emission mile range between charges will underline that this is undeniably an altogether different animal.  Just 58 examples of the AC Cobra Series 1 electric cars will be made, celebrating the anniversary of the production of the first AC Cobra. Source: Newspress