This weekend, we’ve lined up a few old favourites, so best you stay at home, make a Christmas bed, get the snacks, and enjoy these few feel-good classics. Our selection includes a fairy tale with a twist, a hilarious buddy-cop action movie, a flick about a family attempting to control the antics of their pet Saint Bernard, and the story of a group of animals that must adjust to living in the wild. Sit back, relax and enjoy! In this reimagining of a classic fairy tale a young girl with the help of dwarves, fights to get back her birth right after being banished by her evil step-mother the Queen. Mirror Mirror will show on M-Net movies 1, channel 104 on July 2 at 6:15pm.  A father reluctantly agrees to let his children keep a St. Bernard puppy, but the playful pooch soon turns into a full-grown engine of destruction! Beethoven is now showing on Netflix.   When Hong Kong police detective inspector Lee’s (Chan) favourite pupil is kidnapped in America, the dedicated cop and martial arts genius travels to the United States to find her. Rush Hour will show on M-Net movies 4, channel 108 on July 2 at 6:22pm  Four zoo animals escape and unwittingly find themselves far away in the wilderness of Madagascar. Madagascar is now showing on Showmax.  A series of cryptic phone messages leads three school friends to a spot in the desert where they encounter a strange robotic creature whose spaceship has crash-landed. They are soon pursued by government forces intent on destroying the peaceful space traveller. Earth to echo will show on M-Net movies 1, channel 104 on July 3 at 7:55am.  Two small-town singers chase their pop star dreams at a global music competition, where high stakes, scheming rivals and onstage mishaps test their bond. Eurovision Song Contest: The Story of Fire Saga is now showing on Netflix.  A tough cop is given his most difficult assignment: masquerade as a kindergarten teacher in order to find a drug dealer. Kindergarten Cop will show on M-Net movies 4, channel 108 on July 4 at 6:10pm.  A human detective and his Rottweiler partner go undercover to infiltrate an exclusive dog show to solve one of their biggest cases yet. Show Dogs is now showing on Showmax.  