Clever use of mirrors and lighting can transform an ordinary bathroom into an attractive and functional space, with very little extra outlay. “You can elevate any design by choosing the right mirror and nobody looks good in cool white light, so it’s important to install light bulbs from the correct light spectrum,” says interior designer, Storme Conradie, Director of Signature Made design consultancy.” “Mirrors and lighting allow you to express your personality and create a range of atmospheres from industrial chic to opulent luxury and every ambience in between.” “Using something old with the new is very on-trend. Sourcing antique or vintage era mirrors and lights will add drama, a sense of history and make it art at the same time. Upcycling old pieces also adds value if you’re trying to up your sustainability index.” Mirrors Functional mirrors can double as décor items. For example, a mirror with a built-in shelf or rear storage space is ideal for small bathrooms. • Larger and taller proportioned mirrors create the illusion of height and opulence. • Make a strong statement with a sleek wall-to-wall smoked mirror or an embellished Victorian-era piece. • You can’t go wrong with a round mirror or a brass one. Even better, a round brass mirror shows consideration for the room and creates instant luxury. • Two is better than one. If you have space, opt for a double vanity unit and a double mirror. This is super chic, functional, and has high resell appeal. Lighting Keep bathroom lighting on the warmer spectrum imitating golden hour for warm natural light. Choose your bulbs ranging from around 3 000 to 2 700K (Kelvin Temperature Scale) and avoid cool white light. • Hanging pendant lights from the ceiling looks decorative and task lights for vanities can add an opulent feel. • Incorporate wall lighting on either side of vanity mirrors with a soft glow for flattering front-facing lighting that is also very functional. • Factor in safety: Ensure your lighting has the correct ratings depending on the zone they are going to be installed in. For example, lights flanking vanity units need a different rating to one installed in a shower. Ask your electrician to guide your decisions here. • Keep downlights above areas where you need good visibility. They can be very unflattering above a mirror, so it’s best to avoid this. For a touch of luxury, have a dimmer installed in the bathroom. This will allow flexibility for brighter lighting when needed or dimming the lights when relaxing in the tub. By using affordable mirrors and lighting measures highlighted above,you can give your bathroom a new lease of life.