We found two grand getaways to Plett … one’s the perfect date weekend, the other is perfect for lovers of golf. The Stay & Play 18 Holes Golf Package and The Perfect Date Package are both fabulous options, put together by the Cape Summer Villas Boutique Collection. And for both, there’s a choice of two hotels (both so lovely it’s really hard to choose).  Sky Villa Boutique Hotel and The Bungalow  are both world-leading, luxury, five-star hotels in the popular holiday destination of Plettenberg Bay. So how to decide? Well, if it’s luxury you’re after, then the five-star Sky Villa Boutique Hotel – perched on a hilltop with breath-taking views of the ocean, the mountains, the lagoon, with opulence, striking designs, lush indigenous gardens, world-class facilities and warm hospitality – is where you’ll want to be.  If it’s a more informal option you’re wanting – think a chilled funky atmosphere, toes-in-the-sand, sipping cocktails on the deck, leaving your flip-flops at the door and enjoying  amazing sea views – then you’ll love The Bungalow – a Bed and Breakfast right on the water’s edge at Hobie Beach. This spot really is the perfect mix of luxury, sun, sea and sand – that will tick all the boxes and give you the ultimate experience in beachside living.   The Stay & Play 18 Holes Golf Package is a two-night stay for two adults sharing at either of the two hotels, for R2 000 per person sharing,  with breakfast and an R800 dinner voucher, plus a round of golf at the signature Gary Player designed 18-hole, 72-par Goose Valley Golf Course with the use of a golf cart. The Perfect Date Package is a two-night stay for two adults sharing at either the Sky Villa Boutique Hotel or The Bungalow, breakfast, which is R4200 for the couple, which includes a R1 000 dinner voucher, a bottle of wine and a fruit basket on arrival, and a 60 minute Thai oil massage courtesy of Royal Thai Plett. Both packages are valid from now until September 30, 2021,  subject to availability. Bookings essential. Details: Sky Villa Boutique Hotel, Plettenberg Bay on 087 550 2967, info@skyvilla.co.za or The Bungalow, Plettenberg Bay on 082 077 0260, info@thebungalowplett.co.za www.capesummervillas.co.za