POLOKWANE – The 1st of July 2021 is the day the Protection Of Personal Information (POPI) Act 4 of 2013 takes control of the things that are important to you. In this article, we will recap all the stories we did about the POPI Act so that you quickly get the knack of the act. POPI, as we like to call her, is your new ‘personal’ best friend. Read more: Get to know POPI; your new best friend With POPI, you can be sure that your information stays safe and undisclosed to parties you did not give consent to. Read more: [INFOGRAPHIC] POPI; your personal rights warrior POPI protects certain personal information you choose to share with someone while doing business. Read more: [VIDEO] Why it is important to know what POPI protects An operator/agent is POPI’s right hand. They process your personal information for the agreed upon transaction you engaged in. Read more: POPI: The Agent you need to know POPI wants the best for you and your company and is beneficial in quite a few ways. Read more: How POPI influences your business There are some exceptions when it comes to the Protection of Personal Information Act. We list and explain them here: Is POPI really important to you? All POPI wants to do is to create an open relationship between organisation and clients, which will increase the customer’s confidence in your business. Read more: Comply with POPI; here’s why Don’t fret, you can still ensure that you can comply with the Protection of Personal Information Act. Read more: The clock is ticking to be compliant with POPI There are, however, consequences if you don’t adhere to her rules. She’s not one to play with … Read more: Penalties you may face when you do not comply with POPI Listen to POPI as she explains to you everything you need to know about her. Read more: [LISTEN] The POPI Act explained in under two minutes Here’s a short video of everything you need to know about the Protection of Personal Information (POPI) Act 4 of 2013. Read more: [WATCH] The explanation of POPI you need to see Do you have any questions about the Protection Of Personal Information Act (POPI)? We have the answers! Read more: POPI: Five questions you want answers to Local lawyer, Gert Ehlers explained everything you need to know in a plain and simple way, so that we can make you and POPI the best of friends. Read more: Local lawyer helps us understand POPI better How will the Protection Of Personal Information Act (POPI) influence social media, you ask? Read more: What you need to know about POPI and social media What does this mean for the world of telemarketing and real estate? Read more: Explained: POPI, telemarketers and real estate agents Here are some questions you can ask yourself to make sure you become POPI compliant. Read more: POPI: Questions you can ask yourself POPICheck is the friend you didn’t know you need to set up for POPI compliance. Read more: POPI compliance made easy If you’d like to know more and get the easiest solution for your business to comply with POPI, fill in the form below: