The GR sports is an all-new platform and engine, new suspension, lightweight construction, aerodynamic styling and a new GR-Four permanent all-wheel drive system. The three-door design and lowered roof reduce weight and improve aerodynamic performance. As one would expect, the interior is totally driver-orientated with an easy-to-read 4.2-inch TFT information display and gear shift lever positioned high on the center console with the GR-Four selector just forward of the shift. It offers three driving modes: Normal, Sport or Track.   New 1.6-litre turbo engine The 1.6-litre three cylinder engine produces a whopping 198kW and 360Nm powering the GR from 0-100km/h in 5,5 seconds. Maximum speed is electronically limited to 230km/h. This is matched to a six-speed manual transmission. “The driver can adjust four-wheel drive performance to suit their preference or the driving situation using a 4WD mode dial switch. In normal mode, the base front/rear torque distribution is 60:40; in Sport mode the balance shifts to the rear with a 30:70 split to achieve a fun-to-drive quality on winding roads and circuits; and in Track mode the base setting is 50:50 for fast, competitive driving on circuits or special stages. In each mode, the torque balance will automatically adjust in response to the driver’s inputs, vehicle behaviour and road or track conditions.”  Despite its racing credentials, the GR boasts a six-speaker touchscreen audio system featuring Apple CarPlay/Android Auto functionality for smartphones as well as Bluetooth and USB inputs. With this kind of performance on tap, safety is critical: ABS, EBD, Brake Assist (BA), VSC and Hill Assist Control (HAC). A four-wheel tyre pressure monitor system acts as both safety and performance feature. The Rally model’s TSS package adds Pre-Collision System (PCS), Automatic High Beam (AHB), Lane Trace Assist and Adaptive Cruise Control. Pricing starts at R606 600 and includes a nine-services/90 000km service plan (intervals set at 10 000km) and three-year/100 000km warranty. Customers may also purchase a variety of service and/or warranty add-ons at their local dealership. Source: MotorPress