Inflammation can ignite a vast list of disorders; arthritis, asthma, cancer and diabetes just to name a few. Almost 1 in 5 South African adults have chronic pain associated with inflammation. Nowadays we know just how important it is to keep our immune system at optimal capacity to help keep our keep bodies safe and healthy. With this in mind, B-well has launched their first-ever Anti-inflammation Cookbook to help assist and guide South Africans in making the best choice from their very home. Inflammation is our body’s natural defence response to injury, against harmful microbes and for healing and repairing damaged tissue. Yet there is another side of inflammation that can be hostile rather than helpful. This is when inflammation becomes recurrent, known as chronic inflammation. Some symptoms of inflammation are general fatigue, skin and sinus allergies, digestive problems (IBS, bloating, gas and IBS related conditions), high blood glucose levels, anxiety, depression, “brain fog”, puffy face and eyes. Chronic Inflammation has been linked to certain diseases and may also lead to cancer, diabetes, rheumatoid arthritis and other autoimmune-related diseases. Chronic inflammation has become widespread across the world, predominantly due to incorrect dieting and unhealthy lifestyles, with little physical activity. Stress, lack of proper sleep and high cortisol levels contribute to inflammation in the body too. There are many simple ways to improve your lifestyle and implement positive habits to move towards an inflammation free, energised life. One of the most powerful tools for combatting inflammation come from food and their components that may have anti-inflammatory effects. In this cookbook, B-well highlight some of the best foods favoured for their anti-inflammatory action, including what foods to avoid. Explore an array of flavourful, tasty and nutritious meals that encourage a style of eating and not a specific regiment. A balanced, anti-inflammatory diet boost your intake of whole, anti-inflammatory, antioxidant-rich foods and promotes optimal function of the whole body. Download your free copy here. * Details: Visit www.bwellfoods.co.za or follow @bwellfoods on Facebook and Instagram. 