Damage caused by rioters already runs into the millions of rand and one can but hope that security forces, the SAPS and the SANDF will take control and subdue the violence and the looting. “We want to urge anyone who has any need to be in or near any of these areas where the riots have been reported to either reconsider their travel, or find safer, alternative routes,” notes the AA. The association has offered the following advice to road users who have to be mobile: 1. Avoid travel to reported unrest areas
2. Use a smartphone GPS navigation system. While no guarantee, if it detects a blockage it will take you on an alternate route. If you must travel, find alternative routes to avoid unrest areas.
3. Check the news and newsfeeds and social media for unrest areas on or near your route before you set off.
4. If you must travel and you are using your own vehicle, ensure it is in good mechanical condition and that you have sufficient fuel in the tank
5. Do not travel with valuables such as expensive jewellery or clothing. Keep laptops and mobile devices out of sight and travel with as little cash as possible
6. If possible, travel with a companion to avoid being isolated.
7. Inform your employer if you will be stranded because of the riots, or because public transport such as the Gautrain or Rea Vaya have been temporarily suspended. Employers should also show due consideration for people who are in difficult transport situations in terms of getting to work and getting home.
8. If you are in a situation where you feel your safety may be in jeopardy, activate private security services through, for instance, AA Armed Response via your smartphone or linked Bluetooth device
9. Remember that your vehicle and any other possessions are not as valuable as your life, and focus on your own personal safety first before anything else
10. If possible get to the nearest place of safety such as a police station
11. Do not engage any rioters
12. Heed directives from authorities to not enter certain areas if they have been cordoned off. Source: AA