Since the start of Covid-19’s lockdowns, maintaining a healthy weight has been a challenge across the world.  Working from home with all-day access to our fridges and pantries has made it easier to eat more.  “When it comes to weight loss, Buchu is your best friend,” says Professor Patrick Bouic, immunopathologist and medical researcher at the University of Stellebosch. “Our latest research was based on an animal model of obesity and revealed this medicinal plant actually reduces the size of fat cells and therefore overall body fat percentage.” Buchu is well-known for its proven ability to reduce inflammation and damages caused by exercise as well as promoting fast recovery.  Professor Boiuc says, “It’s also important to remember that inflammation is the basis of pathology for most of today’s chronic diseases. Therefore, managing inflammation in your body through regular Buchu intake is also an effective overall preventative health measure.” There are many reasons why our blood sugar levels are too high (hyperglycemia) or too low (hypoglycemia).  Sometimes colds, flu and other illnesses can cause these fluctuations. Blood sugar imbalances are an ongoing challenge for people living with diabetes or who may be pre-diabetic, and symptoms like fatigue, light-headedness, dizziness, excessive urination and thirst, headaches, and weakness, start to appear.  “Our research using an animal model of diabetes, showed that daily intake of Buchu effectively normalises the metabolism of glucose and helps to restore balance,” says Prof Bouic. Paying attention to regular detoxing is an important part of modern life when there are unavoidable toxins in the environment, in the air, and even, in some of our food and medication. Buchu supports liver and kidney functions, and boosts the body’s ability to naturally detoxify. You’ll have the peace of mind that there are no adverse side-effects and it’s safe for adults, children and pets to use. Natural Buchu extract is available in a range of products so you can easily incorporate it into your lifestyle. Look for soothing teas and refreshing Buchu waters or take daily capsules. Anti-inflammatory Buchu topical gels and creams can be used for sore and stiff muscles, wounds and skin disorders. Visit buchulife.com for more information. * Source: Cape Kingdom Nutraceuticals