Teachers and principals who are aware of sexual relations between learners and teachers should do as advised by the Children’s Act and report matters to the police instead of handling the situation internally. This is one of the findings that were made after the South African Human Rights Commission last week held hearings on bullying, corporal punishment and sexual relationships between teachers and learners in the province. The hearings, which were held at Bolivia Lodge from 18 to 20 May, followed after Lufuno Mavhunga, a learner from Mbilwi Secondary School, recently committed suicide after a video of her being bullied went viral. Various submissions were made over the three-day period, with Cosatu Provincial Secretary Sello Mahladisa among others, sharing the findings of a Cosas survey done at sub-branches. According to the survey, 70% of learners between Gr 4 and 12 reported that they have experienced bullying. The behaviour ranged from being called names and having sexual comments or gestures made towards them, while others reported to have been bullied online. In quintile one to three schools, 75% of learners in Gr 6 and 7 reported that they had experienced being bullied by a teacher, while this number jumped to 80% of learners in Gr 8 to 12. Only 36% of victims said they reported their bullies. “We need people to step in. The scenarios show us that in more than 50% of bullying incidents, if another learner steps in to help, the bullying might stop,” Mahladisa remarked. Bridgette Mamugudubi from the Litshani vhana-va-de Foundation commended the effort made by the commission, but added that case studies should be made with actual victims, instead of only reflecting on numbers. Victor Mavhidula, the SAHRC Provincial Office Manager hailed the hearings as a success. He said there is serious under-reporting of cases in most incidents, and a lack of implementation of polices by the Department of Education. “Another finding is that there is misalignment between the Children’s Act and the Education Act. When teachers discover instances of bullying or sexual relationships between teachers and learners, they undertake the route of disciplinary action rather than reporting it to the police as the Children’s Act advises,” he said. Mavhidula added that the commission is following up on many cases that have been received.