With the June/July holidays just around the corner, now is a great time to start planning what to pack for your family holiday. Wondering why you need to start packing NOW? Because when little ones are involved, packing takes on a whole new dimension. It’s not just about remembering all the practical things (from bottles and tummy meds to the only teddy that your child can possibly sleep with), but also the things that will make the holiday fun for your children and easier for you. Six top tips for packing for your children: Lists are life-savers. Keep a list on your phone of all the things that you need to pack as you think of them. As you go through your daily routine with your child, you’ll be reminded of what you need to include in their luggage to get them (and you) through the day. Add them to your list straight away. That way, you won’t be halfway to Durban before you realise that you don’t have your phone charger or baby’s bath seat. Each person in the family needs their own list, and you should save or screenshot your list often to keep it safe. Don’t wait until the last moment to pack your child’s luggage. Of course, there are things that he or she will need until that same last moment. But, for everything else, try to pack it at least a week ahead of time. This could include most of their clothes, some toiletries, board games, and medicines. Cross them off the list as you pack them. Highlight last-minute items in a different colour. These will include things like their favourite bedtime teddy, toothbrushes, hairbrushes, and so on. The highlights will help you to concentrate on packing these just before leaving. Pack each day’s outfit into a separate Ziplock bag or pillowcase. This takes the guesswork out of deciding what to wear and helps you to ensure that he or she has enough clean clothes to last the holiday. Label the bags “Monday”, “Tuesday”, “Wednesday”, etc.,.. to make it even easier. This way, children that are slightly older can also dress themselves from that day’s bag without you having to stress. Then, items like raincoats or big jackets can be added to their main bag afterward. Also, it’s wise to pack a few extras, particularly if your children are younger and prone to messing on their clothes. Children should each get their own bag. Sharing will only complicate things. The toiletries bag (which the kids can share) is very important. There’s nothing worse than being in the mountains and realising that you don’t have pain killers or fever meds. This bag needs to include: Of course, if you or your children are on any special or chronic medication, that needs to be included too. Don’t forget to pack board games, books, and other activities to keep them busy on the road or on rainy days, when you may be stuck indoors at your accommodation. If your children use iPads or tablets, think about downloading a few new games or educational apps to keep them busy when it’s really necessary. Yes, it’s quicker and easier when you do it yourself. But, including your children in the packing will make them excited about the trip and will give you a few insights into what really blows their hair back. This way, you’ll both be more likely to have a good time.