While every parent wants to protect their child, sadly sometimes our children suffer traumas that are beyond our control. The good news is that if your child’s trauma is processed, it does not need to become a permanent part of who they are. Your child’s brain has the capacity to digest and metabolise what happened so it’s absorbed into their system in a healthy and useful manner, but this doesn’t happen without focused effort on both of your sides. The effects of childhood trauma have been detailed in a study by Dr Vince Felittli and Dr Robert Anda. Their study on the impacts of Adverse Childhood Experiences (ACE), on 17 500 adults, revealed chilling results. Trauma impacts on brain development, the immune system, hormone regulation, and the way DNA is read and transcribed. The impact of untreated, cumulative trauma over a lifetime has devastating and lasting effects. Trauma affects the developing brain in the following ways: Harvard University’s Centre on the Developing Child explains the impact of this restructuring of the brain. Your child will find it difficult to control his impulses and, therefore, act before he thinks it through or comes up with a healthy plan of action. He will find it difficult to recall instructions, focus his attention and manage numerous tasks. Children are born with the potential to develop these skills, but they need a healthy environment in which to learn and practice them. The toxic stress of trauma can impair the development of these skills as they need three things – the child’s ability to retain short-term memory, the mental flexibility to shift attention as circumstances change and apply new rules in different settings, and self-control to ensure that the response to situations is considered rather than impulsive. Trauma does not have to leave you or your child scarred. Your child can overcome it, process it, and sculpt his neuroplastic brain to lead a dynamic, healthy life. As South African parents, we need to act with insight and help ourselves and our children heal the invisible scars. Here’s how to promote the development of executive functions… 