The 34-year-old is a microbiological pathologist by profession, one of only two in the province. She finished her specialist qualification six months ago and has been working at Lancet Laboratories since January. Lancet Laboratories launched a new microbiology lab in April, which is significant because it means that the service will now be available in the province rather than having to seek the service in other provinces. Phofa explained that she has always been passionate about medicine and in her third year, she did microbiology as an undergraduate subject and she excelled in it. “I knew I wanted to be a pathologist because it is an impactful job which gives you a picture of a patient’s health relating to infectious diseases, without having to physically examine patients. You are the one who connects the diagnosis to the clinician in terms of laboratory medicine,” she explained. Microbiology deals with bacteria, parasites and viruses. Microbiological pathologists grow them from samples like blood, urine and other specimen from the patient that they suspect might be making them sick. “They send it to us to grow pathogens from there and communicate with the doctor of the patients explaining what it is, what it is sensitive to and what will kill it. They use the advice we give them based on what we find in the lab to treat the patient,” she said. Studying medicine requires passion because you cannot be a specialist unless you have qualified as a doctor first. “There is a notion that pathology is difficult; it is challenging but I believe it just needs somebody who is passionate to withstand the training circumstances as well as commitment and discipline. You do not spend time at a patients’ bedside, hence you know to read up as much as possible to gain as much understanding,” she added. She urges that people trust the lab with specimen just as they have done previously. They aim is to give quality results in a timeous manner that are meaningful for treating patients.