Provincial Government officially launched the second phase of Covid-19 vaccinations in the province on 17 May. Polokwane Observer visited the Pietersburg Provincial Hospital on Monday to follow the vaccination process of senior citizens 60 years and older. According to Winnie Manamela, a 71-year-old woman from Seshego, to be vaccinated is about more than just an individual. “It also has an impact on those around you and in the community in which you stay. It helps to keep us all safe.” She says that she had not registered prior to the day of her vaccination and was assisted by the Information Officer, Portia Gwangwa, to register and receive a date allocation. Gwangwa says they are able to assist people to register at the site but it is usually better if people register from home. Once you have registered, and received an SMS to visit your vaccination centre, the first stop would be the screening table. A team of community health workers have been stationed to assist with the screening and checking of identity documentation before you enter the vaccine site. The site has been divided to make provision for those using walking aids, and chairs have been placed in all the queues to ensure the elderly are comfortable during their wait. Once you have completed the screening process, you will queue for the registration of the vaccine. This is where information officers are placed and will enter your details into the Electronic Vaccination Data System that is a centralised platform used to monitor the vaccine rollout. Harold Malatji, professional nurse and Operational Manager for Occupational Health and Safety and Infection Prevention and Control, says the actual jab does not take much time as the vaccine is prepared and stored in a cooler. “We have enough measures in place to ensure that the vaccine is stored between 2° celsius and 7° celsius.” Malatji works with nurse Johannes Moedi who will transfer the vaccinated patient to the confirmation desk where the system will be updated. A vaccination card with the date for the second doze is then issued. The last station is for observation where the patient’s vital signs are checked and any side effects observed. Nurse Phuthi Matlading says patients are advised to wait 15 minutes before they leave the vaccination centre. “If you start to feel unwell, you are asked to come back so we can make sure that everything is fine. Also try to eat something before coming for the vaccination, but we always have fruit at the centre for patients who are here.”