Beat the boredom this weekend with three marvellous movies you simply have to watch… She is brilliant, bad and a little bit mad – get ready for a live-action film following the evil exploits of one of Disney’s most notorious and notoriously fashionable villains; enjoy an inspirational drama based on a true story about a Mexican boys’ home that entered the world’s biggest fishing tournament to save their orphanage; and catch a moving drama about a middle-aged couple in the midst of a cancer diagnosis. Cruella, which is set in 1970s London amidst the punk rock revolution, follows a young grifter named Estella, a clever and creative girl determined to make a name for herself with her designs. She befriends a pair of young thieves who appreciate her appetite for mischief, and together they’re able to build a life for themselves on the London streets. One day, Estella’s flair for fashion catches the eye of the Baroness von Hellman, a fashion legend who is devastatingly chic and terrifyingly haute. But their relationship sets in motion a course of events and revelations that will cause Estella to embrace her wicked side and become the raucous, fashionable, and revenge-bent Cruella. Now showing at a cinema near you.   The much-awaited Netflix movie Blue Miracle is based on a group of orphan boys in Mexico whose home is destroyed by a hurricane. To save their home, the boys and their guardian Omar, enter a fishing competition. The guardian sets up a meeting with a professional fisherman to convince him to help the boys win the prize money which could salvage their orphanage.   Joan and Tom have been married for many years. There is an ease to their relationship that only comes from spending a life time together and a depth of love which expresses itself through tenderness and humour in equal part. When Joan is unexpectedly diagnosed with breast cancer, the course of her treatment shines a light on their relationship as they are faced with the challenges that lie ahead and the prospect of what might happen if something were to happen to her. Ordinary Love is now showing on Showmax.  