In Dinner at Matloha’s, Liziwe Matloha shares some of her most loved recipes – more than 80 of them … tried, tested and loved by her family and friends. There are chapters with dishes for every meal … from great breakfasts (the eggy breakfast muffins are addictive, be warned) to salads (love the roasted beet and butternut with feta and almonds – no side dish, this … it’s a meal in it’s own). From main meals (remember glazed apricot chicken?) to puds, bakes and breads (we tried the orange and cranberry shortbread biscuits … totally yum). But it’s the Heritage dishes that really appeal. Potatoes and green beans. Isijingi – pumpkin porridge with butter and cinnamon sugar. Motogo wa Ting – brown sour porridge with brown sugar. Creamy savoury samp, swimming in cream and butter. DIshes you’ll want to eat all through Winter. Home-cooked, delicious food. Who wouldn’t love it? Follow Liziwe on Facebook (Dinner at matloha’s) and Instagram (@dinneratmatiohas). Penguin.  Curried is a joyful homage to one of the world’s most beloved and versatile dishes – the curry . Inspired by author Cariema Isaacs’  memories of the slow-cooked Cape Malay curries of her childhood, as well as the fast-paced landscape of the Middle East, where she now lives,  Cariema celebrates the nourishing comfort of pulses and legumes in a multitude of wholesome and delicious vegetarian curries for everyday cooking. For special occasions, there are meat and seafood curries from around the globe. Rice and condiments are not overlooked, and there is also a selection of breads, as well as delectable desserts. On our shopping list are the ingredients for the dal and beetroot curried stew, ( rich in colour, it looks almost too good to eat), the Sunday curried roast chicken (to give our traditional roast a twist), the no-rise blikbeker broodjies (bread in a tin mug – perfect for a braai) and Arabian Delights Mouhalabieh (a Middle Eastern version of panna cotta – beautifully decorated so perfect for a dinner party). Penguin.  ‘This book’, says Cape Malay cooking queen Fatima Sydow, ‘is a dream come true. It has provided me with wonderful opportunities – from the people I’ve met and the memories I’ve made to the recipes I’ve shared. My heart is full’.  And the book – Fatima Sydow Cooks – is full too … of wonderful local dishes we all love. Think Vetkoek, to be filled with mince or apricot jam, crayfish curry (head, legs and all), slow cooked beef brisket (inexpensive, flavourful and perfect for a cold winter day), and banana fritters (light and golden and sprinkled with cinnamon). Loads more too.  For more, click on fatimasydow.co.za. Human & Rousseau