 Life’s Not Yoga. Or is it? Jacqui Burnett’s memoir of long-lasting trauma and emotional abuse, followed by the ultimate journey of healing, is about finding love in the chaos of life. Born into a middle-class white family, living in small-town apartheid  South Africa, loving Jesus, the National party and Sunday roasts … as a six year old she thought life was perfect. Fast forward then years, and she wants to kill her father. With the gun he kept under his pillow at night. Decades later, she thinks she’s left her turbulent past – and the trauma of eight near-death experiences – behind her. She’s married, with an excellent education and successful career. Until the day she, as the MD of the company, was supposed to attend a board meeting and announce a year of outstanding results. Instead, she climbs under her desk, sobbing. Leaving everything behind, she sets off to the American Rocky Mountains, where her life starts to unravel, the truth of her childhood emerges, she faces death one more time and, finally, starts to heal.    Now living in Cape Town, Jacqui, inspired by her discoveries on her own personal journey, created a platform The Dare to Be Love Journey, which has more than 40 000 followers. On it, she shares her inspirational thoughts, poetry and personal life stories. For more details, click on jacquiburnett.com or facebook.com/daretoaskjacqui  It’s Not Inside, It’s On Top. If you’re old enough to remember the advert, you’re old enough to enjoy the rest of the book, full of memorable moments in South African advertising. Khanya Mtshali takes a witty look at the country’s most remembered adverts –  Yebo Gogo; Glug glug; It’s dry, but you can drink it – questioning commonly held truths, and presenting a fresh take on how we’ve come to view ourselves through the adverts we grew up with. She debates the role of advertising in our democracy, looks at how business, politics and marketing intersect, and will also make you laugh out loud.  Going further afield, Where the Light Enters – Building a Family, Discovering Myself is Jill Biden’s story … how she fell in love with Joe and his two sons, how she managed public scrutiny, complicated family dynamics and personal losses, how she balanced life a a mother, wife, educator and political spouse. A candid, open, heart warming read.   Books available from exclusivebooks.co.za