For this weekend, we’ve rounded up three must-watch movies for you… An animated adventure comedy about everyone’s favourite rabbit, who can’t seem to shake his mischievous reputation; a powerful and hard-hitting heist drama set in the aftermath of the destructive Hurricane Katrina; and a psychological thriller about a woman who becomes obsessed with her new neighbours and solving a brutal crime she witnessed from her window. Sit back and enjoy… The lovable rogue is back in Peter Rabbit 2: The Runaway. Bea, Thomas, and the rabbits have created a makeshift family, but, despite his best efforts, Peter can’t seem to shake his mischievous reputation. Adventuring out of the garden, Peter finds himself in a world where his mischief is appreciated. When his family risks everything to come looking for him, Peter must figure out what kind of bunny he wants to be. Showing at a cinema near you. VIEW TRAILER HERE –  https://youtu.be/PWBcqCz7l_c  Cut Throat City revolves around four friends who return to find out that Hurricane Katrina has decimated their homes. With no jobs, they turn to a local gangster who offers them one shot at turning their lives around. He instructs them to pull off a dangerous heist in the heart of the city. The boys take up the task reluctantly and however their job goes bad and they find themselves on the run. Two relentless detectives start hunting them and a warlord starts chasing the four boys as well. The particular warlord thinks that the boys stole the heist money. Now showing on Showmax. VIEW TRAILER HERE – https://youtu.be/l1dM85mn_QE  Anna Fox is an agoraphobic child psychologist who finds herself keeping tabs on the picture-perfect family across the street through the windows of her New York City brownstone. Her life is turned upside down when she inadvertently witnesses a brutal crime. Based on the gripping, best-selling novel and adapted by Tracy Letts, shocking secrets are revealed and nothing and no one is what they seem in this suspenseful psychological thriller. Watch The Woman in the Window on Netflix. VIEW TRAILER HERE – https://youtu.be/J0hTmzISOlQ 