A cloud of thick smoke was noticed over the city and surrounds on Sunday as several veldfires raged through certain areas within the city, Tweefontein as well as along the Mogwadi road, marking the early start of the fire season. Approximately 32 veldfires were already reported in open fields and farms in and around Polokwane last week. This is of great concern as the fire season actually only commences in June. The raging wildfires destroyed grass vegetation and nearly damaged properties, households and businesses. Working on Fire (WoF) Limpopo in partnership with the Capricorn District Municipality will deploy more than 100 firefighters across the districts to deal with the wildfires envisaged in the city and surrounds in the upcoming fire season. Spokesperson for Working on Fire in the province, Ofentse Letswalo said firefighters that will be deployed in the city and surrounds are equipped with specialised training and they are also dedicated to saving lives and protecting the environment. “The province is anticipating a busy fire season, which will keep WoF firefighters on their toes. The fire season commences in June and is expected to continue until late October. Thus far we have responded to 14 cases of wildfires in the Capricorn District, Molemole, Lepelle Nkumpi and Senwabarwana areas. We have a strong team made of firefighters that also live up to the WoF values of adaptability and experience various challenges, including abrupt wind direction which increases the rapid spread of the fire.” Matema Gwangwa, National Communications Coordinator of WoF said they are pleading with the community to refrain from starting unwanted fires as they can lose control and will result in a runaway fire. “We are pleading with the community members to please remove fuel load in and around their properties and please take precautions at all times. They must make sure that they educate their children about the impact and the consequences of starting and using fire without being supervised.” She also advised community members from various villages and squatter camps to refrain from using unqualified electricians to connect electricity in their homes. “This tendency is rife in the communities and we urge people to desist from that because faulty connections can lead to fire. People should also be cautious when using candles and fire drums. Those are also the main causes of fires in villages. We are saying to them they must keep them far away from the children, put them in an environment where there are no flammable things and to ensure they are out of their reach. Candles that are left unattended have 90% chance of starting a fire.” She also added that more than 500 firefighters have officially begun preparations for the winter fire season. “WoF teams are busy with the Yellow Card Training Assessments Camps where they are assessed on their readiness for the fire season. The first six teams divided into two groups – Mogalakwena, Modimolle, Leseding, Marekele, Soekmekaar and Lephalale have successfully completed their training, meaning they are trained, equipped and well prepared to face the season.” The Spokesperson of the Polokwane Municipality, Thipa Selala has pleaded with the community to refrain from starting wildfires. He said the municipality has a set of approved and gazetted by-laws for which fines are issued when one is caught in the act of starting fires and burning of rubble. According to the municipal fire by-law any person who fails to comply with the provision of this section is guilty of an offence. “No person may, without the written authority of the service, burn any refuse, wood, straw or other materials within any area or have them burnt or permit them to be burnt within the area unless the refuse, straw or other combustible materials are burnt inside an approved purpose-made incinerator device, subject to the provisions,” reads the by-law.