Calibrachoa Cha-Cha ‘Diva Hot Pink’ is the kind of showstopper that the name implies. A great performer in containers, hanging baskets and in sunny raised garden beds.  For all its star quality, this is a plant that is easy to grow and care for.  Plant in well-drained soil or good quality potting soil, water regularly (especially containers) and fertilise once or twice a month to keep up the quality of flowers. Containers and baskets do best with morning sun. www.ballstraathof.co.za  Colourful Calla lilies (Zantedeschia sp) are guaranteed to brighten up a room, just what is needed as the days get cooler. The mini trumpet shaped flowers come in a wide range of colours, standing out against the glossy, dark green leaves. Use them as table arrangements, to brighten a corner of the room or as a centrepiece on the coffee table.  Display plants in a warm room with bright light, even some morning sun. Keep away from heaters or air conditioning. Water lightly to keep the soil moist, but not soggy. Remove dead flowers to encourage growth. www.lvgplants.co.za  One of the easiest of winter crops is broad beans, and it likes the cold, which encourages it to set pods. Broad beans are sturdy upright growing plants about 1m high that are rarely bothered by pests or diseases. From seed sown in May you should be able to start harvesting from the end of July or early August through to late September or October. Broad beans are heavy feeders, needing well composted soil with additional fertiliser (2:3:2 or 3:1:5.) They grow in all kinds of soil, need full sun and shelter from the wind. Sow directly into the soil where the plants are to mature. Keep the beans moist during germination and water regularly once the seedlings have germinated. As they grow plants need to be staked. Beans should be ready for harvesting within 12 to 16 weeks. The pods are ready for picking when they have filled out and before they burst open. Fresh beans have a delicious earthy flavour that fits in well with winter cooking, in stews, casseroles and soup.  Being a legume, the broad bean is an excellent source of high-quality plant protein. 