When a child is acting out, parents tend to feel completely helpless not knowing why it is occurring. One aspect that many parents do not consider is that their child may be experiencing stress and is unable to understand their own emotions and their actions. “Often parents explain tantrums as a child being naughty, or those teenage mood swings. However, just as stress can negatively impact adults, the effects of stress on children can cause moodiness, emotional swings, and acting out,” explains Rashmita Davechand, brand manager for Stress-Away Tibb Health Sciences. “We may not think that children can experience the same levels of stress as adults, however when you consider all that they have to undergo such as separation anxiety in pre-schoolers, school pressures, social interactions, and even overwhelming situations such as death, divorce, and a pandemic, it makes absolute sense that they would respond by acting out.” Although children, especially younger ones, do not know how to handle their emotions, when a child is stressed, behavioural and habitual changes can be indicators: According to the American Psychology Association, what parents think their children worry about and what they actually worry about are very different. They found that children, ages 8-17, worry about doing well in school, getting into good colleges, and their families’ finances. “As parents, there are different ways in which to help our children manage their levels of stress, and it starts with acknowledging that we understand that they do have worries in their lives,” suggests Davechand. “Making changes to everyday living and how we interact with our children can help them deal with their emotions and find calmer ways to express themselves. The onset of COVID-19 brought additional stress to children. Not being able to focus on schoolwork, hand in assignments, receive work due to lack of internet connection, and keep up with their classmates was one of the biggest stressors that children are facing.” According to an informal South African study, 21% of children required psychosocial support to deal with these feelings of anxiety and uncertainty. “Together with worrying about the health of their family and themselves, and, in some cases, parents losing their jobs, the stress and anxiety felt by children during this time increased,” comments Davechand. Davechand suggests the four following stress-relieving options: “Children often choose not to speak to a parent when they are feeling stressed., thinking that they can cope on their own.  This is common with older children who are more reluctant to seek out a parent to talk to,” explains Davechand. Good to know: Other options such as proper rest with good nutrition and a stress support supplement can help with managing your child’s stress.