Phase two is focused on citizens aged 60 years and older who will receive the Pfizer vaccine once they have been registered through the Electronic Vaccination Data System (EVDS). Six sites around the province have been selected as vaccination hubs, namely Pietersburg Provincial Hospital, Mankweng Hospital, St Rita’s Hospital, Donald Fraser Hospital, Dr CN Phatudi Hospital and Mokopane Hospital. Mediclinic Limpopo and Netcare Pholoso Hospital will also soon be ready to start with vaccinations. Health Minister Zweli Mkhize reminded citizens that there are five ways to register on the EVDS: • Online at www.vaccine.enroll.health.gov.za. • Using the WhatsApp line 0600 123456. • Via SMS by dialling *134*832#. • Call the Covid-19 hotline 0800 029 999. It is important to note that people who have registered should not go to the vaccination facilities unless they have received a confirmation message indicating the date and time as well as the facility where they should report to. During the launch, Premier Chupu Mathabatha encouraged all the eligible vaccine recipients to register. “Only those who have registered will be vaccinated and to avoid overcrowding, long queues and the risk of spreading Covid-19 we must wait to be invited by the Department of Health via EVDS to go and receive our vaccine,” he said. Also speaking during the launch, Health MEC Phophi Ramathuba said there are three old age homes across the province that will be visited and there are 91 teams that are ready to assist at various vaccination sites. Health Spokesperson Neil Shikwambana said there are more than 180 000 persons who are 60 years and older who have registered to receive the vaccine. He added that although there is no limit to the number of people who can be vaccinated, they are guided by statistics which inform them that there are around 500 000 people in that category in the province. For the elderly citizens who don’t have access to the internet, there are outreach teams in the form of community healthcare workers to go door to door to assist those who are unable to register on their own.