Ask any parent and they’ll tell you that the morning routine and school rush is more often than not, chaotic and frustrating! Some parents have children who are eager to get out of bed in the morning, so there are few power struggles when it comes to getting ready. In some homes, the situation is the polar opposite! It takes begging to get a child to open their eyes, let alone dress or get ready for school. When you start the day frustrated, it’s easy for it to spiral out of control and become chaotic. Kelly van Rooyen, a certified Hand in Hand Parenting Instructor, is a lucky mother. Her two kids don’t have to fight to get out of their blankets in the morning. She is aware, however, of children who are not enthusiastic about getting out of bed on time. Kelly has a few ideas for these individuals. Read on… Even as an adult, optimal sleep is recommended to feel rejuvenated and tackle the tasks of the day. For a little developing brain, sleep is key. Kelly asks “are the kids going to bed early enough? Is the room dark or warm enough?” These are some of the contributing factors to your child’s sleep quality and will determine whether or not they are physically and mentally up for taking up the day. The National Sleep Foundation (NSF) has compiled a recommendation for parents that can guide them on how much sleep children need. How many adults do you know that are not ‘morning people’? Plenty. The same rule applies to kids. They know very well that they have to get out of bed and ready for school, but fighting their nature is a challenge for them. “We have to look at our children’s temperament,” Kelly says. “Your kids might just take longer to wake up than you do,” so it is important to acknowledge that and find ways to navigate it. You could wake your children up a few minutes earlier than usual to make waking up a lot better. Kelly’s children require cuddles with mom before they start their day. Maybe your child needs some connection before they can start, or just need five minutes of quiet before they jump of be. Plus, cuddles solve any problem. The lack of autonomy for children can suck the fun out of anything. As they grow up, children want to assert their independence. You can tap into this yearning for power by giving them some choice. Making them feel like they are part of the morning routine makes the morning less parent-directed. Kids learn to make choices, and subsequently, learn to be accountable for them. These lessons could equally be relevant to other parts of their lives as they grow up. This is a difficult one to ask from parents who grew in the “my way or the highway” household. Modern parents are required to learn the children in foreign ways to how they were raised. Kelly calls it a new “language” of parenting. Learning it takes us time, but creates some results. Lastly, grumpy kids should never be grumpy parents. This not only teaches your children that their moods have power over you, but it could equally ruin everyone’s day. Remember, a happy mom is a happy home!