One of the occupants, Lovemore Mkantho, told Polokwane Observer that roughly seven families stayed in the house, all of whom relocated from Malawi to South Africa to find proper jobs. “Though we live in different rooms, we have become one big family and we have grown close enough to be brothers and sisters. We help and assist one another,” Mkantho explained. He said that they have now lost everything in the fire. “When the fire started, most of us were at work and we rushed home as soon as other residents alerted us,” Mkantho said. He explained that they were told that their neighbour left her five-year-old and nine-month-old children with their caretaker. “The older child alerted the caretaker on a fire in the room where the baby was sleeping. The caretaker then called for help and community members saved the baby from the room while the caretaker managed to save herself and the other child. Some of the residents had to break a window to get to the child. We thank God that no one was injured,” Mkantho said. Fire-fighters and emergency services workers were on the scene within minutes to put out the fire. Some of the other occupants, Penjani Mwagomba, Kenneth Mndefu and Brian Rwizi say they are devastated that they had lost everything. Rwizi told Polokwane Observer that Polokwane Muslim Welfare Foundation visited them the same day to donate blankets and matrasses to them. “The foundation assisted us with accommodation while some of us approached residents in Nirvana to assist us with temporary accommodation,” Rwizi said. Mkantho, Mwagomba and Mndefu have found temporary accommodation in Westenburg. “We would like to give a huge thank you to the Polokwane Muslim Welfare Foundation for coming to our rescue after they heard our cry for help and assisted us during this hard and difficult times.” Polokwane Observer spoke to the Polokwane Muslim Welfare Foundation Manager, Shabier Abdulla who said the minute the fire was brought to their attention, they immediately went out to assist. “As a foundation we help anyone regardless of their race, culture, religion or where they come from. On a monthly basis, we help about 70 to 90 people who desperately need help with basic needs, and we are always open to help more people who need our help,” Abdulla explained. Abdulla explains that the foundation assisted the residents with mattresses, food for the night, clothes, shoes, baby essentials, toiletries and blankets. “We also assisted them with temporary accommodation and some already had friends who were willing to help them with places to sleep. They are more than welcome to come see us if they need any assistance with anything. Our doors will always be open,” Abdulla said.