In their quest to quell the ongoing bullying at various schools in the province and also to assist those struggling with mental health, the Department of Sport, Arts and Culture has allocated a R1 million to support the Shudufhadzo Musida Foundation which focuses on mental health. Musida, Miss South Africa 2020 title holder, recently launched the foundation, she partnered with various stakeholders to tackle the stigma surrounding mental health. With the initiative, Musida aims to change the narrative around depression, trauma, anxiety and teen suicide, among others. According to researchers, bullying may seriously affect mental health and well-being of children and youth. Parents, teachers, coaches and other youth-serving adults are in positions where they are able to notice when there are signs of mental distress or bullying behaviour. MEC for Sport, Arts and Culture, Thandi Moraka said during the recent budget speech that they are committed to work with Musida through her foundation on issues of mental health and a total of R1 million has been budgeted for the initiative. “The department will also continue to support her throughout her reign as Miss SA and ultimately on her quest to become Miss World in Puerto Rico in December.” Spokesperson for the department, Lucky Tshilimandila, emphasised that it is important to partner with Musida because issues of mental health affects many programmes in schools, including the school sport programme which is implemented in partnership with the Department of Education. “Through sport we can fight mental illnesses because learners are happy when they participate in sport activities. The main objective of this programme is to get maximum participation of learners in sport, promote social cohesion and nation building which is why it is important to address mental health issues among learners.” He added that the programme is going to be implemented in the second quarter of the financial year. Musida was quoted in a radio interview: “All that people want, especially those who are struggling with mental health, is just a shoulder to cry on, someone to listen to them so that they know they are not alone. It’s such a lonely journey because no one speaks about it.”