Rebounding is a low-impact exercise done on a mini trampoline called a rebounder. “It can be done by anyone and everyone,” says instructor Sally Ross, one of South Africa’s first rebounding trainers. “It’s a brilliant full-body workout for young and old, fit and unfit, healthy and unhealthy because it simply has so many benefits. “It’s also got great longevity because it’s quick and enjoyable, and leaves you feeling less stressed and energised, so you’re able to work smarter and sleep better too.” * Exercises and strengthens muscle fibre in every part of your body. * Minimises colds, allergies, digestion and abdominal problems.] * Boosts energy levels and lymphatic circulation by stimulating the millions of one-way valves in the lymphatic system. * Tones the glandular system to increase the output of the thyroid gland, pituitary gland and the adrenals. * Detoxes the whole body and assists the body in attaining peak cell function. * Strengthens the musculoskeletal system via the G-Force (gravitational load) of each bounce. * Decreases the possibility of illness and disease; it’s a good form of long-term health insurance. * Oxygenates all the body’s tissues. * Enhances nutrient absorption, digestion and elimination processes. * Eases menstrual discomfort. * Assists with weight problems. * Protects joints from impact when exercising on hard surfaces. * Lowers cholesterol and triglyceride levels as well as blood pressure and heart rate levels. * Offers relief from neck and back pain and headaches. * Improves balance by increasing responsiveness to the vestibular apparatus within the inner ear.  * Most rebounding classes are about 45 minutes to an hour, but bouncing for just five minutes three times a day helps the body detox. For weight loss, a 15 – 20 minute session three times a week is a good start. * Visit reboundsa.co.za if you want to buy a rebounder; they cost about R2100 and can be delivered. They are compact and easy to travel with. * All Rebound SA products and courses are approved by the CANSA SMART CHOICE Seal of Approval. * For more info on rebounding to to book studio or online course, go to bodyworkshop.co.za or @thebodyworkshop