In countries, it’s standard practice to test every newborn baby for various genetic disorders. This is because conditions like cystic fibrosis, sickle cell anaemia, Duchenne muscular dystrophy, Tay-Sachs disease, phenylketonuria, and thalassemia, which are caused by a single gene mutation, can respond well to early treatment and prevent potentially serious complications or permanent disability. In other countries, compulsory DNA testing was overruled after being challenged in court, in favour of protecting the right to personal liberty and privacy. However, few diseases are the result of a single genetic mutation. Instead, multiple genes interact with each other and, along with environmental factors, can influence your child’s risk of illness, and its severity. What this means, according to nutrigenomics specialist Dr Christa North is that it is possible for us to influence whether or not these conditions will manifest. “Every parent at some stage worries about whether they have passed on a hereditary disease to their child,” says Dr North, “and the truth is that their susceptibility to those conditions is indicated in many of today’s DNA tests.” While some might argue they don’t need all this “doom and gloom”, Dr North says the focus of precision medicine, which includes DNA testing, is for parents to use the information to avoid these conditions setting in. Prevention, she argues, is far more effective once you know the risks! “Genetic tests can help parents to make informed lifestyle choices for infants and young children. For example, these tests can help identify the likely cause of digestive issues, to avoid further symptoms and promote healthy digestion” she says. Here are a few of the genes that are tested by South African DNA testing company Geneway and what they indicate: It’s argued that the information obtained in DNA tests can be used to dramatically improve your child’s quality of life if it’s accompanied by proper medical interpretation and thorough recommendations. This means that you, as a parent, will be in a position to make more informed choices regarding their health, wellness, sport, and diet if you are equipped with detailed information. What is important is to ensure that a qualified healthcare provider interprets and presents the results to you. DNA reports are highly detailed, and while some international companies do offer a test and report (without consultation), a professional consultation is highly recommended to ensure that both you and your child gets the full benefit of the test.