The good news is that massage parlours across South Africa are open again following the lifting of lockdown regulations. That means mom can – and should – now book for an indulgent back, foot, or head massage. According to a study published in Depress Anxiety, patients who were suffering from anxiety and who received massages for a period of 4 months showed positive results almost immediately. After 9 months, the reduction in their anxiety levels were significant. Patients struggling with depression, stress, asthma, back pain, arthritis, and multiple sclerosis who also benefited from regular massage confirmed these findings. And as we know, moms are super stressed out most of the time. It’s a full-time job looking after your baby, running your household, and homeschooling, and on top of that, there’s still your own job to do in between if you’re a working mom. It’s hectic stuff. While burnout has been largely recognised as a work-related problem, it’s gaining momentum outside of work too, with many parents feeling stressed and overwhelmed with daily responsibilities. “Parental burnout is a huge and growing issue,” says certified life coach and author of Recover From Burnout, Judy Klipin. “As parents, we have so many competing demands on us that it’s hard to be fully present in the role of parent when we are with our kids. We are going in many different directions, and unfortunately, we sometimes spend less energy and time on the people and places we love the most.” So, when you next have the morning to yourself, do yourself a favour and book that massage. Make the most of this special “me time” because it’s not only beneficial for you but for your family, too. And if you don’t have the money for a massage at a spa (yes, we know times have been tough with the lockdown), create your own relaxation haven at home and enlist your partner to give you a back and foot rub. The therapists at Steenberg Spa have the following tips to help you set up your own spa at home: On a tight budget? You only need a handful of ingredients from your kitchen to follow these simple recipes and instructions for a full body treatment that will leave you feeling refreshed and revived. Cleanse your skin as you normally would and then exfoliate with an easy oats and honey mix to remove dead skin cells. Oats are considered natural cleansers, rich in antioxidants with anti-inflammatory properties that work well as an exfoliator while unclogging the pores, too. Honey is naturally antibacterial and helps to clarify, heal, soothe, and moisturise the skin. Soak the oats in water with a little bit of honey and then, using your fingertips, apply it to your face in circular motions for 2-3 minutes before rinsing off with lukewarm water. You can also swop your oats for lemon juice, a natural fruit acid exfoliant packed with vitamin C. Ideal for oily or combination skins, it exfoliates the skin and will assist in brightening any dark spots and blemishes, leaving your skin with a healthy glow. Apply the lemon juice onto your skin with a make-up brush and leave it on for 2-3 minutes before rinsing with lukewarm water. Just make sure you first do a skin patch test before you apply it to your entire face – after all, it is an acid! Complete your facial with a nourishing and moisturising avocado mask. Loaded with antioxidants, omega-3 fatty acids, and vitamin E, this seasonal fruit serves as a super moisturiser suitable even for more extreme skin conditions such as eczema and psoriasis, relieving inflammation and healing the skin. Mash a ripe avocado, apply it to your skin and leave it on for 10-15 minutes before rinsing with lukewarm water. Egg white protein is well known for its anti-ageing properties and will tone and tighten your pores. Using only one egg, separate the white from the yolk and apply it to your skin for 10-15 minutes, and then rinse with lukewarm water. Remove dead skin cells with a mix of brown sugar and olive oil. The sugar granules help to create a smoother and more radiant skin appearance. Vitamin-rich olive oil is a well-known natural moisturiser with many more health benefits. For added pampering and an invigorating scent, include some fresh lemongrass or 1-2 drops of lemongrass oil. Other herbs from your garden such as mint can also be used as a scrub to help to refresh your skin. Exfoliate and moisturise your whole body with this quick and easy sugar scrub and then rinse and moisturise with your favourite body lotion. All this hand-washing and sanitising is sure to dry out your skin out. Rub one teaspoon of coconut oil onto your hands and cuticles and then place a glove or sock over each of them for at least 5 minutes, allowing the oil to penetrate deep into your skin. Don’t rinse – rather wipe off the excess oil with a towel and continue to rub the oil into your hands until it’s absorbed.