In the wake of the Auditor General’s (AG) release of a clean audit report of the affairs of Capricorn District Municipality (CDM) for the second consecutive year, the municipality on Monday brought together residents of its four participating local municipalities at Bolivia Estate to scrutinise the 2019/20 annual performance report, and make inputs to its content. The hearing followed after the council adopted the report during a council meeting that was held recently. It was since open for the public to make representations and comments or inputs with an aim of promoting accountability to the communities. The hearing was led by the municipality’s Municipal Public Accounts Committee (MPAC) and was its last public participation session ahead of the end of the 2016-21 council term that will end after the municipal elections that are scheduled for 27 October. Acting Executive Mayor and Member of the Mayoral Committee, Sammy Selamolela presented the report on behalf of Mayor John Mpe. Selamolela highlighted that, at the end of this reporting period, CDM has provided access to piped water to 89% of the district’s population, while 89% had the luxury of electricity and 61% had access to sanitation. “This service delivery record inspired the municipality to press ahead harder with more projects on the cards to meet sustainable development goals,” Selamolela aid. The municipality is required by the Municipal Finance Management Act (MFMA) 56 of 2003 to prepare an annual report of each financial year for the purpose of providing an accurate and honest record of activities and performance including service delivery and budget implementation. The draft annual report is a backward-looking document that reflects on all aspects of performance in terms of how the Integrated Development Plan (IDP) and budget were implemented. It includes the financial statements for the year under report as well as the AG’s report. Kgoshigadi Mothapo congratulated the municipality for the achievements reported and pledged the support of traditional leaders. “I also commend you for the capacity-building programmes you give to us,” she said.