During the day businesswomen displayed their businesses through pop-up stalls and local designers got the opportunity to showcase their apparel with fashion shows. According to the founder of Superwomen Connected Business Journal, Konanani Makhuvha, the idea was to gather businesswomen to network and learn how they can grow their businesses through education and investment. “We need to come together and see how we can grow our businesses. The motivation behind all this was to raise money to empower young girls in the communities that need help with things like canned foods and clothes. The turnout of women willing to grow their businesses was overwhelming. We are looking forward to another event called HER, which is translated as Health, Empowered and Radiant, in September. We believe that women are stronger than they think, no matter how small your business is, you can still do it. Let’s get going. The event could not be what it is if it was not for all the potential sponsors,” Makhuvha said. Business and life coach, Mandy Sigauke said the idea was to empower each other as women. “We need to help each other in order to grow our business. Most of the businesses were not doing well because of Covid-19 but we are here to empower and enable each other to be more flexible. We also encourage each other to continue to do business. What else is there to do in these times we live in. From the Superwomen Connected Business Journal I see a bright future ahead because we have been exposed to other possibilities. We feel empowered and revived, we can face the world and we can do anything we put our minds to,” said Sigauke. Dr Kagiso Seakamela of IV Med Lounge said when she learned about the Super Women Connected Business Journal she jumped in and showcased her business. “People in Limpopo do not know enough about IV drips, vitamins and minerals and we need them a lot, especially older people. The Superwomen Connected Business Journal was worth attending because now people know more about IV drips,” Seakameala said.