Reach For A Dream, is once again proving that no dream is too big with their Cooking for Dreams virtual cook-a-long. They’re inviting all enthusiastic cooks to join them in an attempt to break a Guinness World Record for the most people cooking online virtually. The Foundation has partnered with celebrity chefs, J’Something and Chef David Higgs as well as sponsors: Woolworths, Discovery Vitality and DHL to launch Cooking For Dreams. The My Kitchen Rules duo, J’Something and Chef David Higgs will reunite and live stream from Vitality’s HeathyFood Studio, to host the cook-a-long. The master cooks have created a special recipe for the occasion and curated the Cooking For Dreams box full of incredible Woolworths ingredients. “The Cooking For Dreams cook-a-long is a fun way to get families, schools and corporates together in their kitchens to cook while helping children facing life-threatening illnesses realise their dreams through the funds raised,” says Reach For A Dream CEO, Julia Sotirianakos. The event promises to be the biggest virtual cook-a-long the world has ever seen and Reach For A Dream invites everyone to take part by purchasing the Cooking for Dreams box. On Thursday, 24 June all eyes will turn to the Discovery Vitality HealthyFood Studio as J‘Something, Chef David Higgs and thousands of South Africans cook a scrumptious, record-breaking dish. The exciting moment will come together when everyone joins in virtually and, from the safety and comfort of their homes and attempt to break the Guinness World Record for the most people cooking online simultaneously at the same time. The Foundation aims to have 3000 cooks join online and therefore encourages everyone to get involved and cook for a good cause to help make dreams come true for children fighting life-threatening illnesses. All you have to do is head to the Cooking for Dreams website to buy the Cooking For Dreams box for only R350, which includes an amazing box full of incredible Woolworths ingredients, delivered to your doorstep by DHL. The First 3000 will be delivered free of charge. 