Quality time with your children doesn’t have to mean spending the entire weekend at the mall or taking them on an expensive weekend getaway. Make the most of your time together by participating in these fun cost-effective weekend activities that the entire family can enjoy. Matchboxes make wonderful little presents; you can create fun, easy crafts in no time and it’s a fun, creative way to teach your children about recycling. Make insect characters by spray painting matchboxes and getting the kids to draw on faces. Use pipe cleaners for antennae, feet, or tentacles. Pack a picnic basket filled with your family’s favourite treats and set it up in your garden for a fun day with the kids. If you feel like an outing, drive to your nearest park and set up your picnic there. Remember the ball and Frisbee to keep the little ones busy while you relax under the trees. Kids love making anything from cupcakes and cookies to pizza because they get to squish the dough with their fingers. Get the whole family together in the kitchen for a baking contest – you can have a cookie decorating contest or the panel of judges (Mom and Dad) can decide whose pizza tastes the best. Introduce your little ones to gardening by helping them make their very own mini hothouse. It’s really easy to get started and the kids will love watching their seedlings grow. Step 1: Use the scissors to carefully cut off the top end of the coke bottle. Step 2: Fill the pot with potting soil and gently push your finger into the soil to make a hole to plant your seedling into. Once you’ve popped the seedling into the hole, pat down firmly around the base of your seedling. Step 3: Lightly water with a spray bottle or watering can. Be sure not to overwater! Step 4: Turn the coke bottle bottom upside down and place it over the top of the pot to form your mini hothouse. Step 5: Stand your hothouse in a warm, well-lit area but make sure it’s not in the full sun. A window sill would be ideal. Step 6: Be sure to water your seedling every day to prevent it from drying out. When the seedling is around 8cm tall, you can get the kids to transplant it into the garden.