Five assassins find themselves on a bullet train from Tokyo competing for a suitcase full of money. Who will get to the last station alive?  Satoshi looks like an innocent teenage schoolboy, but he is really a viciously cunning psychopath. Kimura’s young son is in a coma thanks to Satoshi, and he’s tracked him onto the bullet train headed from Tokyo to Morioka to exact his revenge. But Kimura soon discovers that he and Satoshi are not the only dangerous passengers onboard. Nanao, the self-proclaimed ‘unluckiest assassin in the world’, and the deadly partnership of Tangerine and Lemon are also travelling to Morioka. A suitcase full of money leads others to show their hands. Why are they all on the same train, and who will get off alive at the last station? Loads of twists and turns along the track in Kataro Isaka’s BULLET TRAIN. A great weekend read.  Money. Money. Money. Tons of it. In US dollars. And it’s all being funnelled into a government tender snagged by family-owned Amalfi Civils. Which would be great for business if CEO Angela wasn’t fighting with her CFO brother Rej. Where Angela sees corruption, Rej sees cabinet ministers, politicians, officials eager to lend a hand. For a fee. It’s a big pot so he’s happy to oblige. And if needs be he’ll take out his sister to keep the lucre. There are other players in this game. The CIA for one. The State Security Agency for another. And a black op using lawyer and spy Vicki Kahn as a honeytrap to ensnare Rej’s middleman – the very same middleman that her lover, PI Fish Pescado, is investigating. With these stakes, it’s only time before the killing starts. We love Mike Nicol, and THE RABBIT HOLE doesn’t disappoint.  Near the dying English seaside town of Ilmarsh, local police detective Alec Nichols discovers sixteen horses’ heads on a farm, each buried with a single eye facing the low winter sun. After forensic veterinarian Cooper Allen travels to the scene, the investigators soon uncover evidence of a chain of crimes in the community – disappearances, arson and mutilations – all culminating in the reveal of something deadly lurking in the ground itself. In the dark days that follow, the town slips into panic and paranoia. Everything is not as it seems. Anyone could be a suspect. And as Cooper finds herself unable to leave town, Alec is stalked by an unseen threat. The two investigators race to uncover the truth behind these frightening and insidious mysteries – no matter the cost. SIXTEEN HORSES is Greg Buchanan’s debut thriller … a story of guilt, trauma and punishment in a small seaside community the rest of the world has left behind. All available at Exclusive Books, online and instore.