“Following a healthy, nutritious diet which includes whole grains, fruit and vegetables are very important,” says Hannelise Rademan, a registered dietitian volunteering at Worcester Provincial Hospital in the Western Cape. “And ideally, your diet should also be low in fat.” “Limit spicy and fried foods, creamy sauces, gravies, fatty meats, pastries, nuts, potato chips, butter and margarine,” she says, adding that moderate portions of protein should be eaten to stimulate a hormone called gastrin, which aids digestion and increases valve pressure. Coffee (both decaffeinated and regular), chocolate, peppermint and spearmint, garlic and onion all exacerbate heartburn and should also be avoided. Drinking liquids at mealtimes can create a prime environment for heartburn. “Rather drink liquids between meals to avoid swelling of the stomach and stay away from carbonated beverages too,” Rademan advises. “Eat smaller meals throughout the day to avoid overwhelming the stomach, allowing it to empty more quickly”. Lifestyle changes can also alleviate symptoms of heartburn; these include eating at least three hours before bed, sitting upright, avoiding vigorous activity after eating and wearing loose-fitting clothes. You can also try to sleep with your head and shoulders slightly elevated. Natural remedies that may help relieve heartburn symptoms include ginger and lemon water, chewing gum, yoghurt and a glass of warm milk with a tablespoon of honey in it. There are many antacid suspensions available that instantly relieve heartburn during pregnancy too. They have a dual-action mode that neutralises stomach acid whilst creating a barrier to reduce acid reflux moving into your oesophagus. Heartburn is common and uncomfortable during pregnancy, but it should subside once you give birth and your hormone levels return to normal. While you may not be able to prevent it altogether, simple lifestyle changes and the right antacids can relieve the symptoms. * Source: Gelusil Plus on behalf of iNova Pharmaceuticals. Details: pregomega.co.za/gelusilplus/ and inovapharma.co.za for more info.