Hard on the heels of the launch of Watershed’s seventh studio album, Elephant in the Room, frontman Craig Hinds will be hosting an exclusive unplugged session at Shamwari Private Game Reserve. The Safari Unplugged weekend is a rare post-lockdown opportunity to attend a live performance by the acclaimed singer/ songwriter for one of South Africa’s most enduring and beloved bands.  The outdoor boma at Shamwari’s Long Lee Manor is a beautiful setting for an unplugged session and because its spacious and in the open air, is a safe way to again enjoy live music. Rather than plugging in with his bandmates, Gideon Botes and Howie Combrink, Craig will be collaborating with the GATE String Quartet, the Eastern Cape’s leading classical ensemble of professional musicians. Amongst them is Lizzie Rennie, former Watershed violinist, who will accompany Craig’s iconic song Indigo Girl. “It’s going to be a fantastic weekend for music lovers,” says Craig. “Of course, there’ll be plenty to delight Watershed fans, while the classical collaboration will complement the tranquillity of the bush. We can promise that the music, hospitality and setting will ensure it’ll be a weekend you won’t forget.”  Safari Unplugged will take place from Friday to Sunday June 25 to 27. On the Friday evening the GATE String Quartet will perform while guests sip gin sundowners on a game drive.  Craig will perform in the Boma at Long Lee Manor on the Saturday night and again in collaboration with the GATE String Quartet during a poolside brunch on the Sunday. Guests may choose to arrive on Thursday 24 June or check out on Monday 28 June. The cost is R4 950 per person sharing. Additional nights can be booked at the cost of R3 950 per person sharing.  This includes luxury accommodation at Long Lee Manor, attendance at all performances, all meals, two daily game drives, game drive drinks and snacks, visits to the Wildlife Rehabilitation Centre and Born Free Big Cat Rescue & Education Centre, and guided bush trials. Bookings obviously essential on 042 203 1111, email reservations@shamwari.com or visit www.shamwari.com