South Africa is renowned for its incredible wildlife and breathtaking scenery with the South African National Parks (SANParks) being popular nature destinations for both local and international tourists alike. The SANParks, located across the country, offer adventure with amazing benefits for visitors who are looking for a memorable weekend away, with Safari.com highly recommending Marakele, Golden Gate, and Bontebok National Park as spectacular spots to consider. Marakele National Park, only a 2.5 hours’ drive away from Pretoria, finds itself surrounded by the majestic Waterberg Mountains. This SANParks consists of 2 rest camps named Bontle Restcamp and Tlopi Tented Restcamp which offer a variety of accommodation. Marakele National Park and its 2 designated camps have over the years become a tourism magnet because of the rich wildlife variety and activities which visitors can enjoy. The unique climatic conditions in this region mean that Marakele is the ideal home to thriving bird and animal species. Marakele enjoys a prestigious reputation of being home to, arguably, the biggest colonies of Cape Vultures in the world with approximately 800 breeding pairs. Marakele also offers visitors a rare opportunity to catch a glimpse of Black Rhinos, the African Elephant, Kudu, and other rare species such as the Reedbuck, Mountain Reedbuck, Eland, and Tsessebe. By visiting Marakele, you can be sure of enjoying a memorable holiday filled with game viewing, sunset bush walks, 4×4 eco trails, and hiking trails. Your evenings will not be a dull moment because the park management has put in place barbecue facilities for fun evenings enjoying available cuisine and beverages. Book Marakele National Park restscamps. Golden Gate Highlands National Park is just a 3 hours’ drive away from Johannesburg South. It’s also a similar distance away from Durban, making it a perfect halfway stop between the 2 major cities. It is located on the base of the Maluti Mountains, which provides breathtaking views for guests who decide to visit. Glen Reneen Restcamp and Highlands Mountain Retreat are accommodation options that are available at Golden Gate Highlands National Park. The glowing reputation that this park enjoys locally and internationally can be largely attributed to its unique activities, animals, and scenery which visitors enjoy. Located close to the Lesotho border, this destination allows visitors to indulge in the authentic African heritage embedded in the Basotho culture. You have the opportunity to step into the Basotho village which mirrors an 18th century village where you will experience a recreated cultural village with a chief, his family, and a traditional healer who provides lessons on African spirituality and practices traditional healing. The traditional setting, architecture and decorations provide amazing insights into the African way of life. Golden Gate is the only national park in this part of the country. You can look forward to sighting over 210 bird species which include the rare endangered Cape vulture and bald ibis species as well as a variety of wildlife. The breathtaking Maluti Mountains provide the perfect setting for mountain hiking, horse riding around the mountain areas, cave exploration which provides in-depth archeological knowledge on dinosaur eggs and skeleton discoveries around this area. Book Golden Gate Highlands National Park restcamps. Established in 1931 for the sole purpose of preserving the endangered Bontebok, this national park is merely 3 hours away from Cape Town and just a stone’s throw away from Swellendam. One of the outstanding features of this park is the fynbos veld and the coastal renosterveld which have been heavily preserved to sustain the status of being one of the largest renosterveld islands. Because of these conservation efforts, visitors, especially plant enthusiasts get a chance to see plant species that are found nowhere else in the world. Apart from the animal and plant species, there are no dull moments in this park. Visitors are spoilt for choice with a wide range of activities such as self-navigated game drives, mountain biking, fishing, kayaking, and swimming in the Breede River. You can also go on walking and hiking trails. There are three distinct trails which are the 1.6km Acacia Trail measuring, the 3.3km Aloe Hill Trail and the Bushbuck Trail which runs for 5.4 kms. On days when you are just taking it easy, visitors have access to a well-set picnic and braai area on the banks of the Breede River. Book Bontebok National Park restcamp. The SANParks offer a range of accommodation options that make for a memorable weekend getaway. Consider booking the above nature destinations with Safari.com to experience the convenience and benefits that a trip to the SANParks can provide you with.