On Sunday, 25 April, the area was fenced off roughly three feet from the doorways of several shops in the area, and business owners say this affects business adversely. The business owners Polokwane Observer spoke to, claim they have not been notified in advance. One person who works at a salon in the area, said he was in disbelief when he arrived at work on Monday morning. “The municipality operated like thieves in the night, closing off the area and off-loading heaps of sand. It was a shock to find out that construction of the bus station has started,” he said. Another disgruntled tenant told Polokwane Observer that business has been affected so badly that they will “probably will not survive the six months that have been estimated for the project to be completed”. “Business took a nosedive during the lockdown and at this rate, we will not be able to make rent. We had to cut a portion of the fence to create flow of movement as the barricade closed us off completely,” he said. Other business owners claim no proper consultation was done prior to start of construction. “Our landlords say there was only a presentation, showing what the complete project would look like but there was never a thorough discussion about the implications of the construction on the businesses,” said another business owner. David Ramakgwakgwa, Leeto la Polokwane Manager for Public Transport Regulation and Monitoring, refuted these claims, saying several meetings were held in consultation with land owners in the area. “At some of these meetings, attendance was meagre, but the municipality followed proper protocol as prescribed for public consultation processes.” He said it was unfortunate that the relevant stakeholders did not attend the meetings and thus could not give their input during the consultation process, “and remember, consultations do not mean that we have to be in agreement for the project to continue”. He added that it is highly unlikely that business owners will be compensated as is their demand. “After the consultation processes, a budget was compiled and it did not include compensating business. The municipality promised to create access around the construction area in line with occupational health and safety standards, for the businesses to continue to operate,” Ramakgwakgwa said. During a meeting with the municipality on Tuesday, business owners said they hope for a resolution, failing upon which they would consider obtaining an interdict to halt construction.